docs/integrations/destinations/local-json.md, before:

# Local JSON

:::danger

This destination is meant to be used on a local workstation and won't work on Kubernetes production deployments. This is because the destination writes data to the local filesystem of the container, which is not accessible outside the pod in a Kubernetes environment unless you configure persistent volumes.

:::

## Overview

This destination writes data to a directory on the filesystem within the Airbyte container. All data is written under the `/local` directory inside the container.

### Sync Overview

#### Output schema

Each stream will be output into its own file. Each file will a collections of `json` objects containing 3 fields:

- `_airbyte_ab_id`: a uuid assigned by Airbyte to each event that is processed.
- `_airbyte_emitted_at`: a timestamp representing when the event was pulled from the data source.
- `_airbyte_data`: a json blob representing with the extracted data.

#### Features

| Feature                        | Supported |     |
| :----------------------------- | :-------- | :-- |
| Full Refresh Sync              | Yes       |     |
| Incremental - Append Sync      | Yes       |     |
| Incremental - Append + Deduped | No        |     |
| Namespaces                     | No        |     |

#### Performance considerations

This integration will be constrained by the speed at which your filesystem accepts writes.

## Getting Started

The `destination_path` will always start with `/local` whether it is specified by the user or not. Any directory nesting within local will be mapped onto the local mount.

The connector code enforces that all paths must be under the `/local` directory. If you provide a path that doesn't start with `/local`, it will be automatically prefixed with `/local`. Attempting to write to a location outside the `/local` directory will result in an error.

:::caution

When using abctl to deploy Airbyte locally, the data is stored within the Kubernetes cluster created by abctl. You'll need to use kubectl commands to access the data as described in the "Access Replicated Data Files" section below.

:::

### Example:

- If `destination_path` is set to `/local/cars/models`
- then all data will be written to `/local/cars/models` directory inside the container

## Access Replicated Data Files

Since Airbyte runs in a Kubernetes cluster managed by abctl, accessing the replicated data requires using kubectl commands:

1. Find the pod running the destination connector:
   ```
   kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.airbyte/abctl/abctl.kubeconfig --namespace airbyte-abctl get pods | grep destination
   ```

2. Copy the files from the pod to your local machine:
   ```
   kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.airbyte/abctl/abctl.kubeconfig --namespace airbyte-abctl cp <pod-name>:/local/<destination_path>/<filename> ./<filename>
   ```

Note: The exact pod name will depend on your specific connection ID and sync attempt. Look for pods with names containing "destination" and your connection ID.

If you are running Airbyte on Windows, you may need to adjust these commands accordingly. You can also refer to the [alternative file access methods](/integrations/locating-files-local-destination.md) for other approaches.

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                      |
| :------ | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 0.2.12 | 2024-12-18 | [49908](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/49908) | Use a base image: airbyte/java-connector-base:1.0.0 |
| 0.2.11 | 2022-02-14 | [14641](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14641) | Include lifecycle management |

</details>

Commit message:

docs: update file access instructions for completed pods
Co-Authored-By: ian.alton@airbyte.io <ian.alton@airbyte.io>

docs/integrations/destinations/local-json.md, after:

# Local JSON

:::danger

This destination is meant to be used on a local workstation and won't work on Kubernetes production deployments. This is because the destination writes data to the local filesystem of the container, which is not accessible outside the pod in a Kubernetes environment unless you configure persistent volumes.

:::

## Overview

This destination writes data to a directory on the filesystem within the Airbyte container. All data is written under the `/local` directory inside the container.

### Sync Overview

#### Output schema

Each stream will be output into its own file. Each file will a collections of `json` objects containing 3 fields:

- `_airbyte_ab_id`: a uuid assigned by Airbyte to each event that is processed.
- `_airbyte_emitted_at`: a timestamp representing when the event was pulled from the data source.
- `_airbyte_data`: a json blob representing with the extracted data.

#### Features

| Feature                        | Supported |     |
| :----------------------------- | :-------- | :-- |
| Full Refresh Sync              | Yes       |     |
| Incremental - Append Sync      | Yes       |     |
| Incremental - Append + Deduped | No        |     |
| Namespaces                     | No        |     |

#### Performance considerations

This integration will be constrained by the speed at which your filesystem accepts writes.

## Getting Started

The `destination_path` will always start with `/local` whether it is specified by the user or not. Any directory nesting within local will be mapped onto the local mount.

The connector code enforces that all paths must be under the `/local` directory. If you provide a path that doesn't start with `/local`, it will be automatically prefixed with `/local`. Attempting to write to a location outside the `/local` directory will result in an error.

:::caution

When using abctl to deploy Airbyte locally, the data is stored within the Kubernetes cluster created by abctl. You'll need to use kubectl commands to access the data as described in the "Access Replicated Data Files" section below.

:::

### Example:

- If `destination_path` is set to `/local/cars/models`
- then all data will be written to `/local/cars/models` directory inside the container

## Access Replicated Data Files

Since Airbyte runs in a Kubernetes cluster managed by abctl, accessing the replicated data requires a different approach than with Docker:

1. Configure a persistent volume to store the data outside the pod:
   - Edit your connection configuration to set the destination path to a directory that's mounted to a persistent volume
   - This allows data to persist even after the pod completes its execution

2. For existing data in completed pods, you can access it by:
   - Viewing the logs of the completed pod to see the file contents:
     ```
     kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.airbyte/abctl/abctl.kubeconfig --namespace airbyte-abctl logs <pod-name> | grep -A 100 "data written to"
     ```
   - Or by creating a new pod that mounts the same persistent volume:
     ```
     kubectl --kubeconfig ~/.airbyte/abctl/abctl.kubeconfig --namespace airbyte-abctl run file-access --image=busybox --restart=Never -it --rm -- /bin/sh -c "ls -la /path/to/mounted/volume"
     ```

Note: The exact pod name will depend on your specific connection ID and sync attempt. Look for pods with names containing "destination" and your connection ID.

If you are running Airbyte on Windows, you may need to adjust these commands accordingly. You can also refer to the [alternative file access methods](/integrations/locating-files-local-destination.md) for other approaches.

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                      |
| :------ | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------- |
| 0.2.12 | 2024-12-18 | [49908](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/49908) | Use a base image: airbyte/java-connector-base:1.0.0 |
| 0.2.11 | 2022-02-14 | [14641](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/14641) | Include lifecycle management |

</details>
