docs/integrations/destinations/sftp-json.md, before:

# SFTP JSON

## Overview

This destination writes data to a directory on an SFTP server.

### Sync Overview

#### Output schema

Each stream will be output into its own file.
Each file will contain a collection of `json` objects which correspond directly with the data supplied by the source.

#### Features

| Feature                   | Supported |
| :------------------------ | :-------- |
| Full Refresh Sync         | Yes       |
| Incremental - Append Sync | Yes       |
| Namespaces                | No        |

#### Performance considerations

This integration will be constrained by the connection speed to the SFTP server and speed at which that server accepts writes.

## Getting Started

The `destination_path` can refer to any path that the associated account has write permissions to.

The `filename` **should not** have an extension in the configuration, as `.jsonl` will be added on by the connector.

### Example:

If `destination_path` is set to `/myfolder/files` and `filename` is set to `mydata`, the resulting file will be `/myfolder/files/mydata.jsonl`.

These files can then be accessed by creating an SFTP connection to the server and navigating to the `destination_path`.

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                           | Subject                       |
| :------ | :--------- | :----------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| 0.1.0   | 2022-11-24 | [4924](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/4924) | 🎉 New Destination: SFTP JSON |

</details>

Commit message:

migrate to base image and poetry
destination-sftp-json to poetry and base image + cleanup

chore: bump-version

chore: auto-fix lint and format issues

Update airbyte-integrations/connectors/destination-sftp-json/metadata.yaml

Update airbyte-integrations/connectors/destination-sftp-json/pyproject.toml

Update docs/integrations/destinations/sftp-json.md

integration tests with docker services

delete redundant file

chore: auto-fix lint and format issues

voodoo debug!

docs/integrations/destinations/sftp-json.md, after:

# SFTP JSON

## Overview

This destination writes data to a directory on an SFTP server.

### Sync Overview

#### Output schema

Each stream will be output into its own file.
Each file will contain a collection of `json` objects which correspond directly with the data supplied by the source.

#### Features

| Feature                   | Supported |
| :------------------------ | :-------- |
| Full Refresh Sync         | Yes       |
| Incremental - Append Sync | Yes       |
| Namespaces                | No        |

#### Performance considerations

This integration will be constrained by the connection speed to the SFTP server and speed at which that server accepts writes.

## Getting Started

The `destination_path` can refer to any path that the associated account has write permissions to.

The `filename` **should not** have an extension in the configuration, as `.jsonl` will be added on by the connector.

### Example:

If `destination_path` is set to `/myfolder/files` and `filename` is set to `mydata`, the resulting file will be `/myfolder/files/mydata.jsonl`.

These files can then be accessed by creating an SFTP connection to the server and navigating to the `destination_path`.

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                           | Subject                       |
| :------ | :--------- | :----------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------- |
| 0.2.0 | 2024-10-14 | [46873](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/46873) | Migrated to Poetry and Airbyte Base Image |
| 0.1.0 | 2022-11-24 | [4924](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/4924) | 🎉 New Destination: SFTP JSON |

</details>
