# Ngpvan Destination

This is the repository for the Ngpvan destination connector, written in Python.
For information about how to use this connector within Airbyte, see [the documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/destinations/ngpvan).

## Local development

### Prerequisites
**To iterate on this connector, make sure to complete this prerequisites section.**

#### Minimum Python version required `= 3.7.0`

#### Build & Activate Virtual Environment and install dependencies
From this connector directory, create a virtual environment:
```
python -m venv .venv
```

This will generate a virtualenv for this module in `.venv/`. Make sure this venv is active in your
development environment of choice. To activate it from the terminal, run:
```
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If you are in an IDE, follow your IDE's instructions to activate the virtualenv.

Note that while we are installing dependencies from `requirements.txt`, you should only edit `setup.py` for your dependencies. `requirements.txt` is
used for editable installs (`pip install -e`) to pull in Python dependencies from the monorepo and will call `setup.py`.
If this is mumbo jumbo to you, don't worry about it, just put your deps in `setup.py` but install using `pip install -r requirements.txt` and everything
should work as you expect.

### Locally running the connector

```
python main.py spec
python main.py check --config secrets/config.json
python main.py discover --config secrets/config.json
```

Destination connectors take as input a JSON lines (.jsonl) file containing the AirbyteMessage output generated by a source connector.
A few examples are provided in `/integration_tests`. You can test the connector using commands like the following:

```
cat integration_tests/activist_codes.jsonl | python main.py write --config secrets/config_activist_codes.json --catalog integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```



#### Create credentials
**If you are a community contributor**, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.io/integrations/destinations/ngpvan)
to generate the necessary credentials. Then create a file `secrets/config.json` conforming to the `destination_ngpvan/spec.json` file.
Note that the `secrets` directory is gitignored by default, so there is no danger of accidentally checking in sensitive information.
See `integration_tests/sample_config.json` for a sample config file.

**If you are an Airbyte core member**, copy the credentials in Lastpass under the secret name `destination ngpvan test creds`
and place them into `secrets/config.json`.

## Dependency Management
All of your dependencies should go in `setup.py`, NOT `requirements.txt`. The requirements file is only used to connect internal Airbyte dependencies in the monorepo for local development.
We split dependencies between two groups, dependencies that are:
* required for your connector to work need to go to `MAIN_REQUIREMENTS` list.
* required for the testing need to go to `TEST_REQUIREMENTS` list

### Publishing a new version of the connector
You've checked out the repo, implemented a million dollar feature, and you're ready to share your changes with the world. Now what?
1. Make sure your changes are passing unit and integration tests.
2. Bump the connector version in `Dockerfile` -- just increment the value of the `LABEL io.airbyte.version` appropriately (we use [SemVer](https://semver.org/)).
3. Create a Pull Request.
4. Pat yourself on the back for being an awesome contributor.
5. Someone from Airbyte will take a look at your PR and iterate with you to merge it into master.
