docs/integrations/sources/klaviyo.md, before:

# Klaviyo

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the Klaviyo source connector.

## Prerequisites

- Klaviyo [account](https://www.klaviyo.com)
- [Klaviyo Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3)

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up Klaviyo

1. Create a [Klaviyo account](https://www.klaviyo.com)
2. Create a [Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3). Make sure you selected all [scopes](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/7423954176283) corresponding to the streams you would like to replicate. You can find which scope is required for a specific stream by navigating to the relevant API documentation for the streams Airbyte supports.

### Step 2: Set up the Klaviyo connector in Airbyte

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.io/workspaces) account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ new source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Klaviyo** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for the Klaviyo connector.
5. For **Api Key**, enter the Klaviyo [Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3).
6. For **Start Date**, enter the date in YYYY-MM-DD format. The data added on and after this date will be replicated. This field is optional - if not provided, all data will be replicated.
7. Click **Set up source**.

## Supported sync modes

The Klaviyo source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):

- [Full Refresh - Overwrite](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-overwrite/)
- [Full Refresh - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-append)
- [Incremental - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append)
- [Incremental - Append + Deduped](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append-deduped)

## Supported Streams

- [Campaigns](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-06-15/reference/get_campaigns)
- [Campaigns Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-06-15/reference/get_campaigns)
- [Email Templates](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_templates)
- [Events](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_events)
- [Events Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_event)
- [Flows](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_flows)
- [GlobalExclusions](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-02-22/reference/get_profiles)
- [Lists](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_lists)
- [Lists Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_lists)
- [Metrics](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_metrics)
- [Profiles](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-02-22/reference/get_profiles)

## Performance considerations

The connector is restricted by Klaviyo [requests limitation](https://apidocs.klaviyo.com/reference/api-overview#rate-limits).

The Klaviyo connector should not run into Klaviyo API limitations under normal usage. [Create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you encounter any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

The `Campaigns Detailed` stream contains fields `estimated_recipient_count` and `campaign_message` in addition to info from the `Campaigns` stream. Additional time is needed to fetch extra data.

The `Lists Detailed` stream contains field `profile_count` in addition to info from the `Lists` stream. Additional time is needed to fetch extra data due to Klaviyo API [limitation](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_list).

The `Events Detailed` stream contains field `name` for `metric` relationship - addition to [info](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_event).

The `Profiles` stream can experience transient API errors under heavy load. In order to mitigate this, you can use the "Disable Fetching Predictive Analytics" setting to improve the success rate of syncs.

:::warning
Using the "Disable Fetching Predictive Analytics" will stop records on the Profiles stream will no longer
contain the `predictive_analytics` field and workflows depending on this field will stop working.
:::

## Data type map

| Integration Type | Airbyte Type |
|:-----------------|:-------------|
| `string`         | `string`     |
| `number`         | `number`     |
| `array`          | `array`      |
| `object`         | `object`     |

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                               | Subject                                                                                                                       |
|:--------|:-----------|:-----------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2.8.2   | 2024-07-31 | [42895](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42895)   | Add config option disable_fetching_predictive_analytics to prevent 503 Service Unavailable errors                             |
| 2.8.1   | 2024-07-27 | [42664](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42664)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.8.0   | 2024-07-19 | [XXXXX](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/XXXXX)   | Migrate to CDK v3.9.0                                                                                                         |
| 2.7.8   | 2024-07-20 | [42185](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42185)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.7   | 2024-07-08 | [40608](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40608)   | Update the `events_detailed` stream to improve efficiency using the events API                                                |
| 2.7.6   | 2024-07-13 | [41903](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41903)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.5   | 2024-07-10 | [41548](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41548)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.4   | 2024-07-09 | [41211](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41211)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.3   | 2024-07-06 | [40770](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40770)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.2   | 2024-06-26 | [40401](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40401)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.1   | 2024-06-22 | [40032](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40032)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.0   | 2024-06-08 | [39350](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/39350)   | Add `events_detailed` stream                                                                                                  |
| 2.6.4   | 2024-06-06 | [38879](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38879)   | Implement `CheckpointMixin` for handling state in Python streams                                                              |
| 2.6.3   | 2024-06-04 | [38935](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38935)   | [autopull] Upgrade base image to v1.2.1                                                                                       |
| 2.6.2   | 2024-05-08 | [37789](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/37789)   | Move stream schemas and spec to manifest                                                                                      |
| 2.6.1   | 2024-05-07 | [38010](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38010)   | Add error handler for `5XX` status codes                                                                                      |
| 2.6.0   | 2024-04-19 | [37370](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/37370)   | Add streams `campaigns_detailed` and `lists_detailed`                                                                         |
| 2.5.0   | 2024-04-15 | [36264](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36264)   | Migrate to low-code                                                                                                           |
| 2.4.0   | 2024-04-11 | [36989](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36989)   | Update `Campaigns` schema                                                                                                     |
| 2.3.0   | 2024-03-19 | [36267](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36267)   | Pin airbyte-cdk version to `^0`                                                                                               |
| 2.2.0   | 2024-02-27 | [35637](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35637)   | Fix `predictive_analytics` field in stream `profiles`                                                                         |
| 2.1.3   | 2024-02-15 | [35336](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35336)   | Added type transformer for the `profiles` stream.                                                                             |
| 2.1.2   | 2024-02-09 | [35088](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35088)   | Manage dependencies with Poetry.                                                                                              |
| 2.1.1   | 2024-02-07 | [34998](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34998)   | Add missing fields to stream schemas                                                                                          |
| 2.1.0   | 2023-12-07 | [33237](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/33237)   | Continue syncing streams even when one of the stream fails                                                                    |
| 2.0.2   | 2023-12-05 | [33099](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/33099)   | Fix filtering for archived records stream                                                                                     |
| 2.0.1   | 2023-11-08 | [32291](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/32291)   | Add logic to have regular checkpointing schedule                                                                              |
| 2.0.0   | 2023-11-03 | [32128](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/32128)   | Use the latest API for streams `campaigns`, `email_templates`, `events`, `flows`, `global_exclusions`, `lists`, and `metrics` |
| 1.1.0   | 2023-10-23 | [31710](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31710)   | Make `start_date` config field optional                                                                                       |
| 1.0.0   | 2023-10-18 | [31565](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31565)   | Add new known fields for 'events' stream                                                                                      |
| 0.5.0   | 2023-10-19 | [31611](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31611)   | Add `date-time` format for `datetime` field in `Events` stream                                                                |
| 0.4.0   | 2023-10-18 | [31562](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31562)   | Add `archived` field to `Flows` stream                                                                                        |
| 0.3.3   | 2023-10-13 | [31379](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31379)   | Skip streams that the connector no longer has access to                                                                       |
| 0.3.2   | 2023-06-20 | [27498](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27498)   | Do not store state in the future                                                                                              |
| 0.3.1   | 2023-06-08 | [27162](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27162)   | Anonymize check connection error message                                                                                      |
| 0.3.0   | 2023-02-18 | [23236](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23236)   | Add ` Email Templates` stream                                                                                                 |
| 0.2.0   | 2023-03-13 | [22942](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23968)   | Add `Profiles` stream                                                                                                         |
| 0.1.13  | 2023-02-13 | [22942](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22942)   | Specified date formatting in specification                                                                                    |
| 0.1.12  | 2023-01-30 | [22071](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22071)   | Fix `Events` stream schema                                                                                                    |
| 0.1.11  | 2023-01-27 | [22012](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22012)   | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                                                                   |
| 0.1.10  | 2022-09-29 | [17422](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/17422) | Update CDK dependency                                                                                                         |
| 0.1.9   | 2022-09-28 | [17304](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/17304) | Migrate to per-stream state.                                                                                                  |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-20 | [14872](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/14872) | Increase test coverage                                                                                                        |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-07-12 | [14617](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/14617) | Set max_retries = 10 for `lists` stream.                                                                                      |
| 0.1.4   | 2022-04-15 | [11723](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/11723) | Enhance klaviyo source for flows stream and update to events stream.                                                          |
| 0.1.3   | 2021-12-09 | [8592](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/8592)     | Improve performance, make Global Exclusions stream incremental and enable Metrics stream.                                     |
| 0.1.2   | 2021-10-19 | [6952](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6952)     | Update schema validation in SAT                                                                                               |

</details>

Commit message:

🔧 Source Klaviyo: Remove BackoffStrategy custom implementation (#42891)

docs/integrations/sources/klaviyo.md, after:

# Klaviyo

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the Klaviyo source connector.

## Prerequisites

- Klaviyo [account](https://www.klaviyo.com)
- [Klaviyo Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3)

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up Klaviyo

1. Create a [Klaviyo account](https://www.klaviyo.com)
2. Create a [Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3). Make sure you selected all [scopes](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/7423954176283) corresponding to the streams you would like to replicate. You can find which scope is required for a specific stream by navigating to the relevant API documentation for the streams Airbyte supports.

### Step 2: Set up the Klaviyo connector in Airbyte

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.io/workspaces) account.
2. Click **Sources** and then click **+ new source**.
3. On the Set up the source page, select **Klaviyo** from the **Source type** dropdown.
4. Enter a name for the Klaviyo connector.
5. For **Api Key**, enter the Klaviyo [Private API key](https://help.klaviyo.com/hc/en-us/articles/115005062267-How-to-Manage-Your-Account-s-API-Keys#your-private-api-keys3).
6. For **Start Date**, enter the date in YYYY-MM-DD format. The data added on and after this date will be replicated. This field is optional - if not provided, all data will be replicated.
7. Click **Set up source**.

## Supported sync modes

The Klaviyo source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):

- [Full Refresh - Overwrite](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-overwrite/)
- [Full Refresh - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/full-refresh-append)
- [Incremental - Append](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append)
- [Incremental - Append + Deduped](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/connections/incremental-append-deduped)

## Supported Streams

- [Campaigns](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-06-15/reference/get_campaigns)
- [Campaigns Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-06-15/reference/get_campaigns)
- [Email Templates](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_templates)
- [Events](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_events)
- [Events Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_event)
- [Flows](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_flows)
- [GlobalExclusions](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-02-22/reference/get_profiles)
- [Lists](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_lists)
- [Lists Detailed](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_lists)
- [Metrics](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_metrics)
- [Profiles](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/v2023-02-22/reference/get_profiles)

## Performance considerations

The connector is restricted by Klaviyo [requests limitation](https://apidocs.klaviyo.com/reference/api-overview#rate-limits).

The Klaviyo connector should not run into Klaviyo API limitations under normal usage. [Create an issue](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues) if you encounter any rate limit issues that are not automatically retried successfully.

The `Campaigns Detailed` stream contains fields `estimated_recipient_count` and `campaign_message` in addition to info from the `Campaigns` stream. Additional time is needed to fetch extra data.

The `Lists Detailed` stream contains field `profile_count` in addition to info from the `Lists` stream. Additional time is needed to fetch extra data due to Klaviyo API [limitation](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_list).

The `Events Detailed` stream contains field `name` for `metric` relationship - addition to [info](https://developers.klaviyo.com/en/reference/get_event).

The `Profiles` stream can experience transient API errors under heavy load. In order to mitigate this, you can use the "Disable Fetching Predictive Analytics" setting to improve the success rate of syncs.

:::warning
Using the "Disable Fetching Predictive Analytics" will stop records on the Profiles stream will no longer
contain the `predictive_analytics` field and workflows depending on this field will stop working.
:::

## Data type map

| Integration Type | Airbyte Type |
|:-----------------|:-------------|
| `string`         | `string`     |
| `number`         | `number`     |
| `array`          | `array`      |
| `object`         | `object`     |

## Changelog

<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                               | Subject                                                                                                                       |
|:--------|:-----------|:-----------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 2.9.0   | 2024-08-01 | [42891](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42891)   | Migrate to CDK v4.X and remove custom BackoffStrategy implementation                                                          |
| 2.8.2   | 2024-07-31 | [42895](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42895)   | Add config option disable_fetching_predictive_analytics to prevent 503 Service Unavailable errors                             |
| 2.8.1   | 2024-07-27 | [42664](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42664)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.8.0   | 2024-07-19 | [XXXXX](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/XXXXX)   | Migrate to CDK v3.9.0                                                                                                         |
| 2.7.8   | 2024-07-20 | [42185](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/42185)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.7   | 2024-07-08 | [40608](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40608)   | Update the `events_detailed` stream to improve efficiency using the events API                                                |
| 2.7.6   | 2024-07-13 | [41903](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41903)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.5   | 2024-07-10 | [41548](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41548)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.4   | 2024-07-09 | [41211](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/41211)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.3   | 2024-07-06 | [40770](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40770)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.2   | 2024-06-26 | [40401](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40401)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.1   | 2024-06-22 | [40032](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/40032)   | Update dependencies                                                                                                           |
| 2.7.0   | 2024-06-08 | [39350](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/39350)   | Add `events_detailed` stream                                                                                                  |
| 2.6.4   | 2024-06-06 | [38879](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38879)   | Implement `CheckpointMixin` for handling state in Python streams                                                              |
| 2.6.3   | 2024-06-04 | [38935](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38935)   | [autopull] Upgrade base image to v1.2.1                                                                                       |
| 2.6.2   | 2024-05-08 | [37789](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/37789)   | Move stream schemas and spec to manifest                                                                                      |
| 2.6.1   | 2024-05-07 | [38010](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/38010)   | Add error handler for `5XX` status codes                                                                                      |
| 2.6.0   | 2024-04-19 | [37370](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/37370)   | Add streams `campaigns_detailed` and `lists_detailed`                                                                         |
| 2.5.0   | 2024-04-15 | [36264](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36264)   | Migrate to low-code                                                                                                           |
| 2.4.0   | 2024-04-11 | [36989](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36989)   | Update `Campaigns` schema                                                                                                     |
| 2.3.0   | 2024-03-19 | [36267](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/36267)   | Pin airbyte-cdk version to `^0`                                                                                               |
| 2.2.0   | 2024-02-27 | [35637](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35637)   | Fix `predictive_analytics` field in stream `profiles`                                                                         |
| 2.1.3   | 2024-02-15 | [35336](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35336)   | Added type transformer for the `profiles` stream.                                                                             |
| 2.1.2   | 2024-02-09 | [35088](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35088)   | Manage dependencies with Poetry.                                                                                              |
| 2.1.1   | 2024-02-07 | [34998](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34998)   | Add missing fields to stream schemas                                                                                          |
| 2.1.0   | 2023-12-07 | [33237](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/33237)   | Continue syncing streams even when one of the stream fails                                                                    |
| 2.0.2   | 2023-12-05 | [33099](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/33099)   | Fix filtering for archived records stream                                                                                     |
| 2.0.1   | 2023-11-08 | [32291](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/32291)   | Add logic to have regular checkpointing schedule                                                                              |
| 2.0.0   | 2023-11-03 | [32128](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/32128)   | Use the latest API for streams `campaigns`, `email_templates`, `events`, `flows`, `global_exclusions`, `lists`, and `metrics` |
| 1.1.0   | 2023-10-23 | [31710](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31710)   | Make `start_date` config field optional                                                                                       |
| 1.0.0   | 2023-10-18 | [31565](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31565)   | Add new known fields for 'events' stream                                                                                      |
| 0.5.0   | 2023-10-19 | [31611](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31611)   | Add `date-time` format for `datetime` field in `Events` stream                                                                |
| 0.4.0   | 2023-10-18 | [31562](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31562)   | Add `archived` field to `Flows` stream                                                                                        |
| 0.3.3   | 2023-10-13 | [31379](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/31379)   | Skip streams that the connector no longer has access to                                                                       |
| 0.3.2   | 2023-06-20 | [27498](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27498)   | Do not store state in the future                                                                                              |
| 0.3.1   | 2023-06-08 | [27162](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/27162)   | Anonymize check connection error message                                                                                      |
| 0.3.0   | 2023-02-18 | [23236](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23236)   | Add ` Email Templates` stream                                                                                                 |
| 0.2.0   | 2023-03-13 | [22942](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/23968)   | Add `Profiles` stream                                                                                                         |
| 0.1.13  | 2023-02-13 | [22942](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22942)   | Specified date formatting in specification                                                                                    |
| 0.1.12  | 2023-01-30 | [22071](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22071)   | Fix `Events` stream schema                                                                                                    |
| 0.1.11  | 2023-01-27 | [22012](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/22012)   | Set `AvailabilityStrategy` for streams explicitly to `None`                                                                   |
| 0.1.10  | 2022-09-29 | [17422](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/17422) | Update CDK dependency                                                                                                         |
| 0.1.9   | 2022-09-28 | [17304](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/17304) | Migrate to per-stream state.                                                                                                  |
| 0.1.6   | 2022-07-20 | [14872](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/14872) | Increase test coverage                                                                                                        |
| 0.1.5   | 2022-07-12 | [14617](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/14617) | Set max_retries = 10 for `lists` stream.                                                                                      |
| 0.1.4   | 2022-04-15 | [11723](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/11723) | Enhance klaviyo source for flows stream and update to events stream.                                                          |
| 0.1.3   | 2021-12-09 | [8592](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/8592)     | Improve performance, make Global Exclusions stream incremental and enable Metrics stream.                                     |
| 0.1.2   | 2021-10-19 | [6952](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/6952)     | Update schema validation in SAT                                                                                               |

</details>
