docs/integrations/sources/sftp.md, before:

# SFTP

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the SFTP source connector.

## Prerequisites

- Access to a remote server that supports SFTP
- Host address
- Valid username and password associated with the host server

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up SFTP authentication

To set up the SFTP connector, you will need to select _one_ of the following authentication methods:

- Your username and password credentials associated with the server.
- A private/public key pair.

To set up key pair authentication, you may use the following steps as a guide:

1. Open your terminal or command prompt and use the `ssh-keygen` command to generate a new key pair.
   :::note
   If your operating system does not support the `ssh-keygen` command, you can use a third-party tool like [PuTTYgen](https://www.puttygen.com/) to generate the key pair instead.
   :::

2. You will be prompted for a location to save the keys, and a passphrase to secure the private key. You can press enter to accept the default location and opt out of a passphrase if desired. Your two keys will be generated in the designated location as two separate files. The private key will usually be saved as `id_rsa`, while the public key will be saved with the `.pub` extension (`id_rsa.pub`).

3. Use the `ssh-copy-id` command in your terminal to copy the public key to the server.

```
ssh-copy-id <username>@<server_ip_address>
```

Be sure to replace your specific values for your username and the server's IP address.
:::note
Depending on factors such as your operating system and the specific SSH implementation your remote server uses, you may not be able to use the `ssh-copy-id` command. If so, please consult your server administrator for the appropriate steps to copy the public key to the server.
:::

4. You should now be able to connect to the server via the private key. You can test this by using the `ssh` command:

```
ssh <username>@<server_ip_address>
```

For more information on SSH key pair authentication, please refer to the
[official documentation](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/keygen).

### Step 2: Set up the SFTP connector in Airbyte

1. [Log in to your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account, or navigate to your Airbyte Open Source dashboard.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ New source**.
3. Find and select **SFTP** from the list of available sources.
   <!-- env:cloud -->
   **For Airbyte Cloud users**: If you do not see the **SFTP** source listed, please make sure the **Alpha** checkbox at the top of the page is checked.
   <!-- /env:cloud -->
4. Enter a **Source name** of your choosing.
5. Enter your **Username**, as well as the **Host Address** and **Port**. The default port for SFTP is 22. If your remote server is using a different port, please enter it here.
6. In the **Authentication** section, use the dropdown menu to select **Password Authentication** or **SSH Key Authentication**, then fill in the required credentials. If you are authenticating with a private key, you can upload the file containing the private key (usually named `rsa_id`) using the **Upload file** button.
7. If you wish to configure additional optional settings, please refer to the next section. Otherwise, click **Set up source** and wait for the tests to complete.

## Optional fields

The **Optional fields** can be used to further configure the SFTP source connector. If you do not wish to set additional configurations, these fields can be left at their default settings.

1. **File Types**: Enter the desired file types to replicate as comma-separated values. Currently, only CSV and JSON are supported. The default value is `csv,json`.
2. **Folder Path**: Enter a folder path to specify the directory on the remote server to be synced. For example, given the file structure:

```
Root
| - logs
|   | - 2021
|   | - 2022
|
| - files
|   | - 2021
|   | - 2022
```

An input of `/logs/2022` will only replicate data contained within the specified folder, ignoring the `/files` and `/logs/2021` folders. Leaving this field blank will replicate all applicable files in the remote server's designated entry point.

3. **File Pattern**: Enter a [regular expression](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html) to specify a naming pattern for the files to be replicated. Consider the following example:

```
log-([0-9]{4})([0-9]{2})([0-9]{2})
```

This pattern will filter for files that match the format `log-YYYYMMDD`, where `YYYY`, `MM`, and `DD` represented four-digit, two-digit, and two-digit numbers, respectively. For example, `log-20230713`. Leaving this field blank will replicate all files not filtered by the previous two fields.

## Supported sync modes

The SFTP source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):

| Feature                        | Support | Notes                                                                                |
| :----------------------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Full Refresh - Overwrite       |   ✅    | Warning: this mode deletes all previously synced data in the configured bucket path. |
| Full Refresh - Append Sync     |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Incremental - Append           |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Incremental - Append + Deduped |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Namespaces                     |   ❌    |                                                                                      |

## Supported streams

This source provides a single stream per file with a dynamic schema. The current supported file types are CSV and JSON.
More formats \(e.g. Apache Avro\) will be supported in the future.

## Changelog
<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                |
| :------ | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.2.2   | 2024-02-13 | [35221](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35221) | Adopt CDK 0.20.4                                       |
| 0.2.1   | 2024-01-24 | [34453](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34453) | bump CDK version                                       |
| 0.2.0   | 2024-01-15 | [34265](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34265) | Remove LEGACY state flag                               |
| 0.1.2   | 2022-06-17 | [13864](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/13864) | Updated stacktrace format for any trace message errors |
| 0.1.0   | 2021-24-05 |                                                          | Initial version                                        |

</details>

Commit message:

chore(connectors): Rename SFTP connectors
Co-Authored-By: Aaron <AJ> Steers <aj@airbyte.io>

docs/integrations/sources/sftp.md, after:

# SFTP

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the SFTP source connector.

:::note
This connector has been renamed to "SFTP (Legacy)" and is being deprecated. For new SFTP connections, please use the newer SFTP (Gen 2) connector (previously named "SFTP Bulk"). This legacy connector will be removed in a future release. The connector's programmatic name remains `source-sftp`.
:::

## Prerequisites

- Access to a remote server that supports SFTP
- Host address
- Valid username and password associated with the host server

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up SFTP authentication

To set up the SFTP connector, you will need to select _one_ of the following authentication methods:

- Your username and password credentials associated with the server.
- A private/public key pair.

To set up key pair authentication, you may use the following steps as a guide:

1. Open your terminal or command prompt and use the `ssh-keygen` command to generate a new key pair.
   :::note
   If your operating system does not support the `ssh-keygen` command, you can use a third-party tool like [PuTTYgen](https://www.puttygen.com/) to generate the key pair instead.
   :::

2. You will be prompted for a location to save the keys, and a passphrase to secure the private key. You can press enter to accept the default location and opt out of a passphrase if desired. Your two keys will be generated in the designated location as two separate files. The private key will usually be saved as `id_rsa`, while the public key will be saved with the `.pub` extension (`id_rsa.pub`).

3. Use the `ssh-copy-id` command in your terminal to copy the public key to the server.

```
ssh-copy-id <username>@<server_ip_address>
```

Be sure to replace your specific values for your username and the server's IP address.
:::note
Depending on factors such as your operating system and the specific SSH implementation your remote server uses, you may not be able to use the `ssh-copy-id` command. If so, please consult your server administrator for the appropriate steps to copy the public key to the server.
:::

4. You should now be able to connect to the server via the private key. You can test this by using the `ssh` command:

```
ssh <username>@<server_ip_address>
```

For more information on SSH key pair authentication, please refer to the
[official documentation](https://www.ssh.com/academy/ssh/keygen).

### Step 2: Set up the SFTP connector in Airbyte

1. [Log in to your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account, or navigate to your Airbyte Open Source dashboard.
2. In the left navigation bar, click **Sources**. In the top-right corner, click **+ New source**.
3. Find and select **SFTP** from the list of available sources.
   <!-- env:cloud -->
   **For Airbyte Cloud users**: If you do not see the **SFTP** source listed, please make sure the **Alpha** checkbox at the top of the page is checked.
   <!-- /env:cloud -->
4. Enter a **Source name** of your choosing.
5. Enter your **Username**, as well as the **Host Address** and **Port**. The default port for SFTP is 22. If your remote server is using a different port, please enter it here.
6. In the **Authentication** section, use the dropdown menu to select **Password Authentication** or **SSH Key Authentication**, then fill in the required credentials. If you are authenticating with a private key, you can upload the file containing the private key (usually named `rsa_id`) using the **Upload file** button.
7. If you wish to configure additional optional settings, please refer to the next section. Otherwise, click **Set up source** and wait for the tests to complete.

## Optional fields

The **Optional fields** can be used to further configure the SFTP source connector. If you do not wish to set additional configurations, these fields can be left at their default settings.

1. **File Types**: Enter the desired file types to replicate as comma-separated values. Currently, only CSV and JSON are supported. The default value is `csv,json`.
2. **Folder Path**: Enter a folder path to specify the directory on the remote server to be synced. For example, given the file structure:

```
Root
| - logs
|   | - 2021
|   | - 2022
|
| - files
|   | - 2021
|   | - 2022
```

An input of `/logs/2022` will only replicate data contained within the specified folder, ignoring the `/files` and `/logs/2021` folders. Leaving this field blank will replicate all applicable files in the remote server's designated entry point.

3. **File Pattern**: Enter a [regular expression](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html) to specify a naming pattern for the files to be replicated. Consider the following example:

```
log-([0-9]{4})([0-9]{2})([0-9]{2})
```

This pattern will filter for files that match the format `log-YYYYMMDD`, where `YYYY`, `MM`, and `DD` represented four-digit, two-digit, and two-digit numbers, respectively. For example, `log-20230713`. Leaving this field blank will replicate all files not filtered by the previous two fields.

## Supported sync modes

The SFTP source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts#connection-sync-modes):

| Feature                        | Support | Notes                                                                                |
| :----------------------------- | :-----: | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Full Refresh - Overwrite       |   ✅    | Warning: this mode deletes all previously synced data in the configured bucket path. |
| Full Refresh - Append Sync     |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Incremental - Append           |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Incremental - Append + Deduped |   ❌    |                                                                                      |
| Namespaces                     |   ❌    |                                                                                      |

## Supported streams

This source provides a single stream per file with a dynamic schema. The current supported file types are CSV and JSON.
More formats \(e.g. Apache Avro\) will be supported in the future.

## Changelog
<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>

| Version | Date       | Pull Request                                             | Subject                                                |
| :------ | :--------- | :------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------- |
| 0.2.2   | 2024-02-13 | [35221](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/35221) | Adopt CDK 0.20.4                                       |
| 0.2.1   | 2024-01-24 | [34453](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34453) | bump CDK version                                       |
| 0.2.0   | 2024-01-15 | [34265](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/34265) | Remove LEGACY state flag                               |
| 0.1.2   | 2022-06-17 | [13864](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/pull/13864) | Updated stacktrace format for any trace message errors |
| 0.1.0   | 2021-24-05 |                                                          | Initial version                                        |

</details>
