import YouTube from '@site/src/components/YouTube';

# Airbyte 2.0

We go fast so you don't get furious. Airbyte version 2.0 was released on October 3, 2025. This version marks a major achievement in Airbyte's platform architecture. We're excited to share new improvements and changes to the Airbyte platform.

## Platform changes

These changes improve Airbyte for everyone.

### Faster sync speed

<YouTube id="wlVEDQPCDRE" />

Faster sync speed is now generally available. When using faster sync speed, Airbyte syncs data 4-6 times faster on average while consuming resources more economically. [**Learn more about faster speed >**](/integrations/speed-improvements)

### Data activation

<YouTube id="JJLpmh7ioxg" />

Data activation is now generally available. It enables you to move data out of your data warehouse and into the operational tools where work happens, like CRMs, marketing platforms, and support systems. With this capability, you can deliver modeled data directly to points of action and systems people already use, helping your organization respond faster and more effectively.

Instead of limiting insights to dashboards and reports, data activation enables data to directly power workflows and decisions in real time in the places people need it. [**Learn more about data activation >**](/platform/next/move-data/elt-data-activation)

## Airbyte Enterprise Flex

<YouTube id="Xw9dCQGK-W8" />

Airbyte Enterprise Flex is a hybrid solution that consists of a fully managed Cloud control plane that supports separate data planes that run in your own infrastructure. It's ideal for organizations with data sovereignty and compliance requirements who need to carefully manage data movement while also minimizing the time and effort needed to self-manage Airbyte.

Managing operational and compliance requirements with more infrastructure often means increased maintenance commitments, higher spend, and greater complexity. Airbyte built Enterprise Flex to ensure you don't have to choose between data sovereignty and ease of deployment.

If you're an Airbyte Cloud customer, any Cloud organization can upgrade to an Enterprise Flex organization. [Talk to Sales](https://airbyte.com/company/talk-to-sales) to get started. [**Learn more about Enterprise Flex >**](/platform/next/enterprise-flex/)

## A look back at version 1

Airbyte is an open source product. We win together, and we've come a long way together. Here are some of the main enhancements that landed in 2025.

**Sovereignty, privacy, and security**:

- [Self-managed data planes](/platform/enterprise-setup/multi-region)

- [Custom image registries](/platform/deploying-airbyte/integrations/custom-image-registries)

- [Mappings](/platform/using-airbyte/mappings)

- [Audit logging](/platform/enterprise-setup/audit-logging)

- [New helm chart](/platform/deploying-airbyte/chart-v2-community)

**Better connector and connection management**: 

- [Simplified OAuth flows for connectors](/platform/using-airbyte/oauth)

- [Connection tags](/platform/using-airbyte/tagging)

- [Resource allocation in the UI](/platform/operator-guides/configuring-connector-resources)

- [A connection page dashboard](/platform/cloud/managing-airbyte-cloud/review-connection-status)

- [Schema configuration updates show in the connection timeline](/platform/cloud/managing-airbyte-cloud/review-connection-timeline)

- Pagination for better UI performance

**More support for AI use cases**:

- [Move files and records together](/platform/using-airbyte/sync-files-and-records)

**Connector Builder improvements**:

- [Declarative OAuth 2.0 support](/platform/connector-development/connector-builder-ui/authentication#oauth)

- [Asynchronous streams](/platform/connector-development/connector-builder-ui/async-streams)

- [GraphQL support](/platform/connector-development/config-based/understanding-the-yaml-file/request-options#graphql-request-injection)

- [CSV, gzip, and ZIP support](/platform/connector-development/connector-builder-ui/record-processing)

- [Stream templates](/platform/connector-development/connector-builder-ui/stream-templates)

- [File syncing](/platform/connector-development/config-based/understanding-the-yaml-file/file-syncing)

- [Property chunking](/platform/connector-development/config-based/understanding-the-yaml-file/property-chunking)

- Configuration normalization rules, including transformations and validations

Thank you for being on this journey with us. We're just getting started.
