# Pexels-API

The connector uses the v1 API documented here: https://www.pexels.com/api/documentation . It is
straightforward HTTP REST API with API based authentication.

## API key

Api key is mandate for this connector to work, It could be generated by a free account at https://www.pexels.com/api/new/.
Just pass the generated API key and optional parameters for establishing the connection.

## Implementation details

## Setup guide

### Step 1: Set up Pexels-API connection

- Generate an API key (Example: 12345)
- Params (If specific info is needed)
- Available params
  - query: Ocean, Tigers, Pears, etc. Default is people
  - orientation: landscape, portrait or square. Default is landscape
  - size: large, medium, small. Default is large
  - color: red, orange, yellow, green, turquoise, blue, violet, pink, brown, black, gray, white or any hexidecimal color code.
  - locale: en-US, pt-BR, es-ES, ca-ES, de-DE, it-IT, fr-FR, sv-SE, id-ID, pl-PL, ja-JP, zh-TW, zh-CN, ko-KR, th-TH, nl-NL, hu-HU, vi-VN,<br> cs-CZ, da-DK, fi-FI, uk-UA, el-GR, ro-RO, nb-NO, sk-SK, tr-TR, ru-RU. Default is en-US

## Step 2: Generate schema for the endpoint

### Custom schema is generated and tested with different IDs

## Step 3: Spec, Secrets, and connector yaml files are configured with reference to the Airbyte documentation.

## In a nutshell:

1. Navigate to the Airbyte Open Source dashboard.
2. Set the name for your source.
3. Enter your `api_key`.
4. Enter your config params if needed. (Optional)
5. Click **Set up source**.

- We use only GET methods, towards the API endpoints which is straightforward
