# Developing Connectors

Airbyte supports two types of connectors: Sources and Destinations. A connector takes the form of a Docker image which follows the [Airbyte specification](../../architecture/airbyte-specification.md).

To build a new connector in Java or Python, we provide templates so you don't need to start everything from scratch.

**Note: you are not required to maintain the connectors you create.** The goal is that the Airbyte core team and the community help maintain the connector.

## The Airbyte specification

Before building a new connector, review [Airbyte's data protocol specification](../../architecture/airbyte-specification.md).

## Adding a new connector

### Requirements

To add a new connector you need to:

1. Implement & Package your connector in an Airbyte Protocol compliant Docker image
2. Add integration tests for your connector. At a minimum, all connectors must pass [Airbyte's standard test suite](testing-connectors.md), but you can also add your own tests. 
3. Document how to build & test your connector

Each requirement has a subsection below.

### 1. Implement & package the connector

If you are building a connector in any of the following languages/frameworks, then you're in luck! We provide autogenerated templates to get you started quickly:

* **Python Source Connector**
* [**Singer**](https://singer.io)**-based Python Source Connector**. [Singer.io](https://singer.io/) is an open source framework with a large community and many available connectors \(known as taps & targets\). To build an Airbyte connector from a Singer tap, wrap the tap in a thin Python package to make it Airbyte Protocol-compatible. See the [Github Connector](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/tree/master/airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-github-singer) for an example of an Airbyte Connector implemented on top of a Singer tap.
* **Generic Connector**: This template provides a basic starting point for any language.

#### Creating a connector from a template

Run the interactive generator:

```text
cd airbyte-integrations/connector-templates/generator
npm install
npm run generate
```

and choose the relevant template. This will generate a new connector in the `airbyte-integrations/connectors/<your-connector>` directory.

If you are developing a Python/Singer connector, you may find the [building a Python connector tutorial](../../tutorials/building-a-python-source.md) helpful.

### 2. Integration tests

At a minimum, your connector must implement the standard tests described in [Testing Connectors](testing-connectors.md)

### 3. Document building & testing your connector
To merge your connector, Airbyte needs to know how to build & test it. If you're writing in Python or Java, skip this section -- it is provided
automatically. 

If you're writing in another language, please document the commands needed to: 
1. Build your connector docker image (usually this is just `docker build .` but let us know if there are necessary flags, gotchas, etc..)
2. Run any unit or integration tests _in a Docker image_. 

Your integration and unit tests must be runnable entirely within a Docker image. This is important to guarantee consistent build environments. 

When you submit a PR to Airbyte with your connector, the reviewer will use the commands you provide to integrate your connector into Airbyte's build 
system as follows: 
1. `:airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-<name>:build` should run unit tests and build the integration's Docker image
2. `:airbyte-integrations:connectors:source-<name>:integrationTest` should run integration tests including Airbyte's Standard test suite.

### Best practices
Make sure to review the [Best Practices for Connector Development](best-practices.md) guide. Following best practices is **not** a requirement for merging your contribution to Airbyte, but it certainly doesn't hurt ;\)

## Updating a connector

Once you've finished iterating on the changes to a connector as specified in its `README.md`, follow these instructions to tell Airbyte to use the latest version of your connector.

1. Bump the version in the `Dockerfile` of the connector \(`LABEL io.airbyte.version=X.X.X`\).
2. Update the connector version in:
   * `STANDARD_SOURCE_DEFINITION` if it is a source
   * `STANDARD_DESTINATION_DEFINITION` if it is a destination.
3. Build the connector with the semantic version tag locally:

   ```text
   ./tools/integrations/manage.sh build airbyte-integrations/connectors/<connector-name>
   ```

4. Submit a PR containing the changes you made.
5. One of Airbyte maintainers will review the change and publish the new version of the connector to Docker hub:

   ```text
   ./tools/integrations/manage.sh publish airbyte-integrations/connectors/<connector-name>
   ```

6. The new version of the connector is now available for everyone who uses it. Thank you!

