# Influxdb
This directory contains the manifest-only connector for `source-influxdb`.

InfluxDB is a high-performance time series database designed for storing, querying, and analyzing time-stamped data. It excels in handling large volumes of data generated by IoT devices, applications, and real-time analytics, providing powerful capabilities for monitoring, observability, and performance tracking. With its SQL-like query language, InfluxQL, and support for downsampling, continuous queries, and data retention policies, InfluxDB enables users to derive insights from their time series data efficiently, making it a popular choice for developers and data scientists in various industries.

## Usage
There are multiple ways to use this connector:
- You can use this connector as any other connector in Airbyte Marketplace.
- You can load this connector in `pyairbyte` using `get_source`!
- You can open this connector in Connector Builder, edit it, and publish to your workspaces.

Please refer to the manifest-only connector documentation for more details.

## Local Development
We recommend you use the Connector Builder to edit this connector.

But, if you want to develop this connector locally, you can use the following steps.

### Environment Setup
You will need `airbyte-ci` installed. You can find the documentation [here](airbyte-ci).

### Build
This will create a dev image (`source-influxdb:dev`) that you can use to test the connector locally.
```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=source-influxdb build
```

### Test
This will run the acceptance tests for the connector.
```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=source-influxdb test
```

