docs/deploying-airbyte/integrations/custom-image-registries.md, before:

---
products: oss-community, oss-enterprise
---

import ContainerProviders from '@site/static/_docker_image_registries.md';

# Custom image registry

You can optionally configure Airbyte to pull Docker images from a custom image registry rather than [Airbyte's public Docker repository](https://hub.docker.com/u/airbyte). In this case, Airbyte pulls both platform images (e.g. `server`, `webapp`, `workload-launcher`, etc.) and connector images (e.g. Postgres Source, S3 Destination, etc.) from the configured registry.

Implementing Airbyte this way has several advantages.

- **Security**: Private custom image registries keep images in your network, reducing the risk of external threats.
- **Access control**: You have more control over who can access and modify images.
- **Compliance**: By keeping images in a controlled environment, it's easier to prove compliance with regulatory requirements for data storage and handling.

## Before you start

Set up your custom image registry. The examples in this article use GitHub, but you have many options. Here are some popular ones:

<ContainerProviders/>

## Custom connectors using fully qualified domain names

[Custom internal connectors](../../operator-guides/using-custom-connectors) that specify an image using a fully qualified domain name (for example, example.com/airbyte/source-postgres) ignore your configured image registry and pull images from the domain specified by that connector.

## Get a list of all Airbyte images

To get a list of Airbyte images for the latest version, use abctl.

```bash
abctl images manifest
```

You should see something like this:

```bash
airbyte/bootloader:1.3.1
airbyte/connector-builder-server:1.3.1
airbyte/connector-sidecar:1.3.1
airbyte/container-orchestrator:1.3.1
airbyte/cron:1.3.1
airbyte/db:1.3.1
airbyte/mc:latest
airbyte/server:1.3.1
airbyte/webapp:1.3.1
airbyte/worker:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-api-server:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-init-container:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-launcher:1.3.1
bitnami/kubectl:1.28.9
busybox:1.35
busybox:latest
curlimages/curl:8.1.1
minio/minio:RELEASE.2023-11-20T22-40-07Z
temporalio/auto-setup:1.23.0
```

## Step 1: Customize Airbyte to use your image registry

To pull all platform and connector images from a custom image registry, add the following customization to Airbyte's `values.yaml` file, replacing the `registry` value with your own registry location.

```yaml title="values.yaml"
global:
  image:
    registry: ghcr.io/NAMESPACE
```

If your registry requires authentication, you can create a Kubernetes secret and reference it in the Airbyte config:

1. Create a Kubernetes secret. In this example, you create a secret called `regcred` from a config file. That file contains authentication information for a private custom image registry. [Learn more about Kubernetes secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/).

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic regcred \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<path/to/.docker/config.json> \
    --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    ```

2. Add the secret you created to your `values.yaml` file. In this example, you use your `regcred` secret to authenticate.

    ```yaml title="values.yaml"
    global:
      image:
        registry: ghcr.io/NAMESPACE
      // highlight-start
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: regcred
      // highlight-end
    ```

## Step 2: Tag and push Airbyte images

Tag and push Airbyte's images to your custom image registry. In this example, you tag all Airbyte images and push them all to GitHub.

```bash
abctl images manifest | xargs -L1 -I{} docker tag {} ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/{} && docker push ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/{}
```

Now, when you install Airbyte, images will come from the custom image registry you configured.

Commit message:

Update the custom image registry content to discuss connector images. Updated the enterprise deployment guide to move custom images out of "Configure your Deployment" and into "Customizing Your Deployment", per Alex' suggestion.

docs/deploying-airbyte/integrations/custom-image-registries.md, after:

---
products: oss-community, oss-enterprise
---

import ContainerProviders from '@site/static/_docker_image_registries.md';

# Custom image registry

You can optionally configure Airbyte to pull Docker images from a custom image registry rather than [Airbyte's public Docker repository](https://hub.docker.com/u/airbyte). In this case, Airbyte pulls both platform images (e.g. `server`, `webapp`, `workload-launcher`, etc.) and connector images (e.g. Postgres Source, S3 Destination, etc.) from the configured registry.

Implementing Airbyte this way has several advantages.

- **Security**: Private custom image registries keep images in your network, reducing the risk of external threats.
- **Access control**: You have more control over who can access and modify images.
- **Compliance**: By keeping images in a controlled environment, it's easier to prove compliance with regulatory requirements for data storage and handling.

[Custom Docker connectors](../operator-guides/using-custom-connectors/) in your workspace that specify an image using a fully qualified domain name (for example, `example.com/airbyte/your-custom-source`) ignore your configured custom image registry and pull images from the domain specified by that connector.

## Before you start

Set up your custom image registry. The examples in this article use GitHub, but you have many options. Here are some popular ones:

<ContainerProviders/>

## Custom connectors using fully qualified domain names

[Custom internal connectors](../../operator-guides/using-custom-connectors) that specify an image using a fully qualified domain name (for example, example.com/airbyte/source-postgres) ignore your configured image registry and pull images from the domain specified by that connector.

## Get a list of all Airbyte images

To get a list of Airbyte images for the latest version, use abctl.

```bash
abctl images manifest
```

You should see something like this:

```bash
airbyte/bootloader:1.3.1
airbyte/connector-builder-server:1.3.1
airbyte/connector-sidecar:1.3.1
airbyte/container-orchestrator:1.3.1
airbyte/cron:1.3.1
airbyte/db:1.3.1
airbyte/mc:latest
airbyte/server:1.3.1
airbyte/webapp:1.3.1
airbyte/worker:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-api-server:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-init-container:1.3.1
airbyte/workload-launcher:1.3.1
bitnami/kubectl:1.28.9
busybox:1.35
busybox:latest
curlimages/curl:8.1.1
minio/minio:RELEASE.2023-11-20T22-40-07Z
temporalio/auto-setup:1.23.0
```

## Step 1: Customize Airbyte to use your image registry

To pull all platform and connector images from a custom image registry, add the following customization to Airbyte's `values.yaml` file, replacing the `registry` value with your own registry location.

```yaml title="values.yaml"
global:
  image:
    registry: ghcr.io/NAMESPACE
```

If your registry requires authentication, you can create a Kubernetes secret and reference it in the Airbyte config:

1. Create a Kubernetes secret. In this example, you create a secret called `regcred` from a config file. That file contains authentication information for a private custom image registry. [Learn more about Kubernetes secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configmap-secret/).

    ```bash
    kubectl create secret generic regcred \
    --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=<path/to/.docker/config.json> \
    --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
    ```

2. Add the secret you created to your `values.yaml` file. In this example, you use your `regcred` secret to authenticate.

    ```yaml title="values.yaml"
    global:
      image:
        registry: ghcr.io/NAMESPACE
      // highlight-start
      imagePullSecrets:
        - name: regcred
      // highlight-end
    ```

## Step 2: Tag and push Airbyte images

Tag and push Airbyte's images to your custom image registry. 

In this example, you tag all platform images and push them all to GitHub.

```bash
abctl images manifest | xargs -L1 -I{} docker tag {} ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/{} && docker push ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/{}
```

You can also pull Airbyte's connector images from Docker, tag them, and push them to your custom image registry. You must do this prior to adding a source or destination.

In this example, you pull a connector from Docker, tag it, and push it to GitHub.

```bash
docker pull airbyte/destination-google-sheets:latest
docker tag airbyte/desination-google-sheets:latest ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/desination-google-sheets:latest
docker push ghcr.io/NAMESPACE/destination-google-sheets:latest    
```

Now, when you install Airbyte, images will come from the custom image registry you configured.
