airbyte-integrations/connectors/destination-milvus/README.md, before:

# Milvus Destination

This is the repository for the Milvus destination connector, written in Python.
For information about how to use this connector within Airbyte, see [the documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/destinations/milvus).

## Local development

### Prerequisites

**To iterate on this connector, make sure to complete this prerequisites section.**

#### Minimum Python version required `= 3.9.0`

### Installing the connector

From this connector directory, run:

```bash
poetry install --with dev
```

#### Create credentials

**If you are a community contributor**, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/destinations/milvus)
to generate the necessary credentials. Then create a file `secrets/config.json` conforming to the `destination_langchain/spec.json` file.
Note that the `secrets` directory is gitignored by default, so there is no danger of accidentally checking in sensitive information.
See `integration_tests/sample_config.json` for a sample config file.

**If you are an Airbyte core member**, copy the credentials in Lastpass under the secret name `destination milvus test creds`
and place them into `secrets/config.json`.

### Locally running the connector

```
python main.py spec
python main.py check --config secrets/config.json
python main.py write --config secrets/config.json --catalog integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

### Locally running the connector docker image

#### Use `airbyte-ci` to build your connector

The Airbyte way of building this connector is to use our `airbyte-ci` tool.
You can follow install instructions [here](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/README.md#L1).
Then running the following command will build your connector:

```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus build
```

Once the command is done, you will find your connector image in your local docker registry: `airbyte/destination-milvus:dev`.

##### Customizing our build process

When contributing on our connector you might need to customize the build process to add a system dependency or set an env var.
You can customize our build process by adding a `build_customization.py` module to your connector.
This module should contain a `pre_connector_install` and `post_connector_install` async function that will mutate the base image and the connector container respectively.
It will be imported at runtime by our build process and the functions will be called if they exist.

Here is an example of a `build_customization.py` module:

```python
from __future__ import annotations

from typing import TYPE_CHECKING

if TYPE_CHECKING:
    # Feel free to check the dagger documentation for more information on the Container object and its methods.
    # https://dagger-io.readthedocs.io/en/sdk-python-v0.6.4/
    from dagger import Container


async def pre_connector_install(base_image_container: Container) -> Container:
    return await base_image_container.with_env_variable("MY_PRE_BUILD_ENV_VAR", "my_pre_build_env_var_value")

async def post_connector_install(connector_container: Container) -> Container:
    return await connector_container.with_env_variable("MY_POST_BUILD_ENV_VAR", "my_post_build_env_var_value")
```

#### Build your own connector image

This connector is built using our dynamic built process in `airbyte-ci`.
The base image used to build it is defined within the metadata.yaml file under the `connectorBuildOptions`.
The build logic is defined using [Dagger](https://dagger.io/) [here](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/pipelines/builds/python_connectors.py).
It does not rely on a Dockerfile.

If you would like to patch our connector and build your own a simple approach would be to:

1. Create your own Dockerfile based on the latest version of the connector image.

```Dockerfile
FROM airbyte/destination-milvus:latest

COPY . ./airbyte/integration_code
RUN pip install ./airbyte/integration_code

# The entrypoint and default env vars are already set in the base image
# ENV AIRBYTE_ENTRYPOINT "python /airbyte/integration_code/main.py"
# ENTRYPOINT ["python", "/airbyte/integration_code/main.py"]
```

Please use this as an example. This is not optimized.

2. Build your image:

```bash
docker build -t airbyte/destination-milvus:dev .
# Running the spec command against your patched connector
docker run airbyte/destination-milvus:dev spec
```

#### Run

Then run any of the connector commands as follows:

```
docker run --rm airbyte/destination-langchain:dev spec
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/destination-langchain:dev check --config /secrets/config.json
# messages.jsonl is a file containing line-separated JSON representing AirbyteMessages
cat messages.jsonl | docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets -v $(pwd)/integration_tests:/integration_tests airbyte/destination-langchain:dev write --config /secrets/config.json --catalog /integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

## Testing

You can run our full test suite locally using [`airbyte-ci`](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/README.md):

```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus test
```

### Unit Tests

To run unit tests locally, from the connector directory run:

```
poetry run pytest -s unit_tests
```

### Integration Tests

To run integration tests locally, make sure you have a secrets/config.json as explained above, and then run:

```
poetry run pytest -s integration_tests
```

### Customizing acceptance Tests

Customize `acceptance-test-config.yml` file to configure tests. See [Connector Acceptance Tests](https://docs.airbyte.com/connector-development/testing-connectors/connector-acceptance-tests-reference) for more information.
If your connector requires to create or destroy resources for use during acceptance tests create fixtures for it and place them inside integration_tests/acceptance.py.

## Dependency Management

All of your dependencies should go in `setup.py`, NOT `requirements.txt`. The requirements file is only used to connect internal Airbyte dependencies in the monorepo for local development.
We split dependencies between two groups, dependencies that are:

- required for your connector to work need to go to `MAIN_REQUIREMENTS` list.
- required for the testing need to go to `TEST_REQUIREMENTS` list

### Publishing a new version of the connector

You've checked out the repo, implemented a million dollar feature, and you're ready to share your changes with the world. Now what?

1. Make sure your changes are passing our test suite: `airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus test`
2. Bump the connector version in `metadata.yaml`: increment the `dockerImageTag` value. Please follow [semantic versioning for connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/pull-requests-handbook/#semantic-versioning-for-connectors).
3. Make sure the `metadata.yaml` content is up to date.
4. Make the connector documentation and its changelog is up to date (`docs/integrations/destinations/milvus.md`).
5. Create a Pull Request: use [our PR naming conventions](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/pull-requests-handbook/#pull-request-title-convention).
6. Pat yourself on the back for being an awesome contributor.
7. Someone from Airbyte will take a look at your PR and iterate with you to merge it into master.
# Investigating CDK update compatibility

Commit message:

feat: Add local Milvus integration tests
- Add standalone_embed.sh script for local Milvus container
- Update integration tests to use local Milvus instance
- Add test configuration for local testing
- Update README with local testing instructions

Co-Authored-By: Aaron <AJ> Steers <aj@airbyte.io>

airbyte-integrations/connectors/destination-milvus/README.md, after:

# Milvus Destination

This is the repository for the Milvus destination connector, written in Python.
For information about how to use this connector within Airbyte, see [the documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/destinations/milvus).

## Local development

### Prerequisites

**To iterate on this connector, make sure to complete this prerequisites section.**

#### Minimum Python version required `= 3.9.0`

### Installing the connector

From this connector directory, run:

```bash
poetry install --with dev
```

#### Create credentials

**If you are a community contributor**, follow the instructions in the [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/destinations/milvus)
to generate the necessary credentials. Then create a file `secrets/config.json` conforming to the `destination_langchain/spec.json` file.
Note that the `secrets` directory is gitignored by default, so there is no danger of accidentally checking in sensitive information.
See `integration_tests/sample_config.json` for a sample config file.

**If you are an Airbyte core member**, copy the credentials in Lastpass under the secret name `destination milvus test creds`
and place them into `secrets/config.json`.

### Locally running the connector

```
python main.py spec
python main.py check --config secrets/config.json
python main.py write --config secrets/config.json --catalog integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

### Locally running the connector docker image

#### Use `airbyte-ci` to build your connector

The Airbyte way of building this connector is to use our `airbyte-ci` tool.
You can follow install instructions [here](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/README.md#L1).
Then running the following command will build your connector:

```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus build
```

Once the command is done, you will find your connector image in your local docker registry: `airbyte/destination-milvus:dev`.

##### Customizing our build process

When contributing on our connector you might need to customize the build process to add a system dependency or set an env var.
You can customize our build process by adding a `build_customization.py` module to your connector.
This module should contain a `pre_connector_install` and `post_connector_install` async function that will mutate the base image and the connector container respectively.
It will be imported at runtime by our build process and the functions will be called if they exist.

Here is an example of a `build_customization.py` module:

```python
from __future__ import annotations

from typing import TYPE_CHECKING

if TYPE_CHECKING:
    # Feel free to check the dagger documentation for more information on the Container object and its methods.
    # https://dagger-io.readthedocs.io/en/sdk-python-v0.6.4/
    from dagger import Container


async def pre_connector_install(base_image_container: Container) -> Container:
    return await base_image_container.with_env_variable("MY_PRE_BUILD_ENV_VAR", "my_pre_build_env_var_value")

async def post_connector_install(connector_container: Container) -> Container:
    return await connector_container.with_env_variable("MY_POST_BUILD_ENV_VAR", "my_post_build_env_var_value")
```

#### Build your own connector image

This connector is built using our dynamic built process in `airbyte-ci`.
The base image used to build it is defined within the metadata.yaml file under the `connectorBuildOptions`.
The build logic is defined using [Dagger](https://dagger.io/) [here](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/pipelines/builds/python_connectors.py).
It does not rely on a Dockerfile.

If you would like to patch our connector and build your own a simple approach would be to:

1. Create your own Dockerfile based on the latest version of the connector image.

```Dockerfile
FROM airbyte/destination-milvus:latest

COPY . ./airbyte/integration_code
RUN pip install ./airbyte/integration_code

# The entrypoint and default env vars are already set in the base image
# ENV AIRBYTE_ENTRYPOINT "python /airbyte/integration_code/main.py"
# ENTRYPOINT ["python", "/airbyte/integration_code/main.py"]
```

Please use this as an example. This is not optimized.

2. Build your image:

```bash
docker build -t airbyte/destination-milvus:dev .
# Running the spec command against your patched connector
docker run airbyte/destination-milvus:dev spec
```

#### Run

Then run any of the connector commands as follows:

```
docker run --rm airbyte/destination-langchain:dev spec
docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets airbyte/destination-langchain:dev check --config /secrets/config.json
# messages.jsonl is a file containing line-separated JSON representing AirbyteMessages
cat messages.jsonl | docker run --rm -v $(pwd)/secrets:/secrets -v $(pwd)/integration_tests:/integration_tests airbyte/destination-langchain:dev write --config /secrets/config.json --catalog /integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

## Testing

You can run our full test suite locally using [`airbyte-ci`](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-ci/connectors/pipelines/README.md):

```bash
airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus test
```

### Unit Tests

To run unit tests locally, from the connector directory run:

```
poetry run pytest -s unit_tests
```

### Integration Tests

The integration tests require a local Milvus instance. The test suite will automatically manage a Milvus container using the provided `standalone_embed.sh` script in the `integration_tests` directory.

#### Prerequisites for Integration Tests
- Docker installed and running
- Default ports available:
  - 19530 (Milvus)
  - 2379 (etcd)
  - 9091 (WebUI)

To run integration tests locally:
1. Make sure you have a `secrets/config.json` as explained above
2. Ensure Docker is running
3. Run the tests:
```bash
poetry run pytest -s integration_tests
```

The test suite will:
1. Start a local Milvus instance using standalone_embed.sh
2. Run the integration tests
3. Clean up the Milvus container and volumes

Note: The integration tests use a local configuration file that points to the local Milvus instance.

### Customizing acceptance Tests

Customize `acceptance-test-config.yml` file to configure tests. See [Connector Acceptance Tests](https://docs.airbyte.com/connector-development/testing-connectors/connector-acceptance-tests-reference) for more information.
If your connector requires to create or destroy resources for use during acceptance tests create fixtures for it and place them inside integration_tests/acceptance.py.

## Dependency Management

All of your dependencies should go in `setup.py`, NOT `requirements.txt`. The requirements file is only used to connect internal Airbyte dependencies in the monorepo for local development.
We split dependencies between two groups, dependencies that are:

- required for your connector to work need to go to `MAIN_REQUIREMENTS` list.
- required for the testing need to go to `TEST_REQUIREMENTS` list

### Publishing a new version of the connector

You've checked out the repo, implemented a million dollar feature, and you're ready to share your changes with the world. Now what?

1. Make sure your changes are passing our test suite: `airbyte-ci connectors --name=destination-milvus test`
2. Bump the connector version in `metadata.yaml`: increment the `dockerImageTag` value. Please follow [semantic versioning for connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/pull-requests-handbook/#semantic-versioning-for-connectors).
3. Make sure the `metadata.yaml` content is up to date.
4. Make the connector documentation and its changelog is up to date (`docs/integrations/destinations/milvus.md`).
5. Create a Pull Request: use [our PR naming conventions](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/pull-requests-handbook/#pull-request-title-convention).
6. Pat yourself on the back for being an awesome contributor.
7. Someone from Airbyte will take a look at your PR and iterate with you to merge it into master.
# Investigating CDK update compatibility
