docs/connector-development/tutorials/custom-python-connector/1-environment-setup.md, before:

# Environment setup

Let's first start by cloning the repository, optionally forking it first

```bash
git clone git@github.com:airbytehq/airbyte.git
cd airbyte
```

Use the Airbyte provided code generator which bootstraps the scaffolding for our connector:

```bash
cd airbyte-integrations/connector-templates/generator
./generate.sh
```

Select Python CDK Source Set name to `survey-monkey-demo`

Next change your working directory to the new connector module. Also change airbyte-cdk version
to the one used for this tutorial in `pyproject.toml`:

```bash
cd ../../connectors/source-survey-monkey-demo
```

Then create an initial python environment and install the dependencies required to run an API Source connector:

```bash
poetry lock
poetry install --with dev
```

Let's verify the unit tests pass

```bash
poetry run pytest unit_tests
```

And the check operation fails as expected

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo check --config secrets/config.json
```

It should return a failed connection status

```json
{
  "type": "CONNECTION_STATUS",
  "connectionStatus": {
    "status": "FAILED",
    "message": "Config validation error: 'TODO' is a required property"
  }
}
```

The discover operation should also fail as expected

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo discover --config secrets/config.json
```

It should fail because `TODO' is a required property`

The read operation should also fail as expected

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo read --config secrets/config.json --catalog integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

It should fail because `TODO' is a required property`

We're ready to start development. In the [next section](./2-reading-a-page.md), we'll read a page of
records from the surveys endpoint.

Commit message:

Cleanup documentation for connector developers to not use generators

docs/connector-development/tutorials/custom-python-connector/1-environment-setup.md, after:

# Environment setup

Let's first start by cloning the repository, optionally forking it first

```bash
git clone git@github.com:airbytehq/airbyte.git
cd airbyte
```

Next, you will want to create a new connector.

## Initialize connector project

```bash
git clone git@github.com:airbytehq/airbyte.git
cd airbyte

# Make a directory for a new connector and navigate to it
mkdir airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-exchange-rates-tutorial
cd airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-exchange-rates-tutorial

# Initialize a project, follow Poetry prompts, and then add airbyte-cdk as a dependency.
poetry init
poetry add airbyte-cdk
```

For this walkthrough, we'll refer to our source as `exchange-rates-tutorial`.

## Add Connector Metadata file

Each Airbyte connector needs to have a valid `metadata.yaml` file in the root of the connector directory. [Here is metadata.yaml format documentation](../../../connector-development/connector-metadata-file.md).

## Implement connector entrypoint scripts

Airbyte connectors are expected to be able to run `spec`, `check`, `discover`, and `read` commands. You can use `run.py` file in Airbyte connectors as an example of how to implement them.

## Running operations

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo check --config secrets/config.json
```

It should return a failed connection status

```json
{
  "type": "CONNECTION_STATUS",
  "connectionStatus": {
    "status": "FAILED",
    "message": "Config validation error: 'TODO' is a required property"
  }
}
```

The discover operation should also fail as expected

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo discover --config secrets/config.json
```

It should fail because `TODO' is a required property`

The read operation should also fail as expected

```bash
poetry run source-survey-monkey-demo read --config secrets/config.json --catalog integration_tests/configured_catalog.json
```

It should fail because `TODO' is a required property`

We're ready to start development. In the [next section](./2-reading-a-page.md), we'll read a page of
records from the surveys endpoint.
