docs/terraform-documentation.md, before:

---
products: all
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Terraform provider

Follow this tutorial to learn how to use Airbyte's Terraform Provider. 

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/), developed by HashiCorp, is an Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool that empowers you to define and provision infrastructure using a declarative configuration language. If you use Terraform to manage your infrastructure, you can use Airbyte's Terraform provider to automate and version control your Airbyte configuration as code. Airbyte's Terraform provider is built off [Airbyte's API](https://reference.airbyte.com).

If you don't need a tutorial, go straight to the [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

## Limitations and considerations

The Airbyte Terraform provider supports connectors that are available in **both** Self-Managed Community and Cloud. It doesn't support connectors that are only available in Self-Managed Community.

## Requirements before you begin

Before starting this tutorial, make sure you have the following:

- Basic familiarity with Terraform is helpful, but not required.

- Install a code editor, like Visual Studio Code, optionally with a Terraform extension.

- Ensure [Terraform is installed](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) on your machine.

- Obtain your Airbyte credentials:

    - [An API application](using-airbyte/configuring-api-access.md) in Airbyte, your client ID, and your client secret.

    - The URL of your Airbyte server (e.g. `http://localhost:8000/api/public/v1/`).

    - Your workspace ID. To get your workspace ID, open your workspace in Airbyte, then copy the ID from the URL. It looks like this: `039da657-f061-493e-a836-9bce86bc5e35`.

- Source and destination credentials. This tutorial uses [Stripe](integrations/sources/stripe) and [BigQuery](integrations/destinations/bigquery), but you can substitute any other connector. Consult the documentation for those connectors to ensure you have what you need to connect.

## Strongly typed versus weakly typed {#typing}

The Airbyte provider offers two types of resources, and there are benefits and drawbacks to both. Review this information before creating your sources and destinations.

### Strongly typed configurations

Resources with strongly typed configurations have strict rules about how you write configuration attributes. If they're written incorrectly, these resources prevent `terraform apply` from running.

These resources depend on the underlying Airbyte connectors. Connectors are continually updated as third-party APIs change. This creates two primary points of failure for Terraform.

- You upgrade the Terraform provider version, and fetch a new version of the `config` block. However, you don't upgrade your version of the connector in your Airbyte instance. The setup now crashes because there is a mismatch between the Terraform provider and the connector itself.

- Airbyte builds the Terraform SDK at a given time. Then, the connector has a breaking change, like a third-party deprecating an API endpoint. You upgrade your connector, but Airbyte hasn't upgraded the Terraform provider yet and it doesn't work as expected.

Essentially, using this option creates an ongoing risk that upgrading the Terraform provider or a connector causes a breaking change.

### Weakly typed (JSON) configurations

Instead of using a connector-specific resource, you can use [`airbyte_source_custom`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/source_custom) and [`airbyte_destination_custom`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/destination_custom). These are normally Airbyte's resources for custom connectors, but you can use them with any existing Airbyte or Marketplace connector and write your configurations as JSON strings. These configurations are more robust when connectors change. Mismatches between a Terraform provider and a connector do not prevent `terraform apply` from running. The absence of a newly added configuration option might have no impact at all on your data and your use of that connector.

The main issue with this method is that JSON strings can technically contain anything, and you could make a mistake that Terraform doesn't warn you about. 

The best way to get a valid JSON string is to set up a new connector in Airbyte's UI, fill out all the fields, then click **Copy JSON**. You don't actually need to create the connector. Terraform can do that. You just need to get the right JSON string.

### How to choose

This tutorial demonstrates how to use both options.

- For Airbyte and Marketplace connectors, you can choose which type of resource you prefer. Airbyte generally recommends using a JSON configuration. Based on the feedback we receive, JSON causes less Terraform drift and makes upgrades less problematic in the long run.

- For custom connectors, only weakly typed JSON configurations are possible.

## Step 1: Set up the Terraform provider

Download the Terraform provider and configure it to run with your Airbyte instance.

1. Create a directory to house your Terraform project, navigate to it, and create a file named `main.tf`.

2. Go to https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest.

3. Click **Use Provider**, copy the code, and paste it into `main.tf`. It should look something like this:

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    terraform {
        required_providers {
            airbyte = {
            source = "airbytehq/airbyte"
            version = "0.6.5"
            }
        }
    }

    provider "airbyte" {
        # Configuration options
    }
    ```

4. Configure the Airbyte provider to use your credentials, but don't put your sensitive data into `main.tf`. Instead, insert variables you'll populate later.

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    terraform {
        required_providers {
            airbyte = {
            source = "airbytehq/airbyte"
            version = "0.6.5"
            }
        }
    }

    provider "airbyte" {
        // highlight-start
        client_id = var.client_id
        client_secret = var.client_secret

        # Include server_url if running locally
        server_url = "http://localhost:8000/api/public/v1/"
        // highlight-end
    }
    ```

5. In your terminal, create a file named `variables.tf`. This file stores sensitive variables you don't want to appear in `main.tf`, plus other values you'll reuse often.

6. Populate `variables.tf`. Define `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `workspace_id`.

    ```hcl title="variables.tf"
    variable "client_id" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_CLIENT_ID"
    }

    variable "client_secret" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET"
    }

    variable "workspace_id" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_AIRBYTE_WORKSPACE_ID"
    }
    ```

7. Run `terraform init`. Terraform tells you it initialized successfully. If it didn't, check your code against the code samples above.

8. Run `terraform plan`. Terraform tells you there are no changes.

9. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you there are no changes.

## Step 2: Create a source

Add a source from which you want to get data. In this example, you add Stripe as a source. If you want to use a different source, you can find the code sample for the corresponding resource in the [Terraform provider reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

1. Add your source to `main.tf`.

    <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="JSON" label="JSON">
        
        For this and any other Airbyte or Marketplace connector, you can define the source type in the JSON string.
        
        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_custom" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = jsonencode({
                "source_type" : "stripe",
                "account_id" : "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID",
                "client_secret" : "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET",
                "start_date" : "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lookback_window_days" : 0,
                "slice_range" : 365
                })
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

        If this is your own custom connector, use `definition_id` to define the source type. To get this value, open your custom connector in Airbyte and copy the definition ID from the URL of that connector.

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_custom" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = jsonencode({
                "account_id" : "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID",
                "client_secret" : "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET",
                "start_date" : "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lookback_window_days" : 0,
                "slice_range" : 365
                })
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
            // highlight-next-line
            definition_id = "e094cb9a-26de-4645-8761-65c0c425d1de"
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="Strongly typed" label="Strongly typed">
        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_stripe" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = {
                source_type = "stripe"
                account_id = "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID"
                client_secret = "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET"
                start_date = "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z"
                lookback_window_days = 0
                slice_range = 365
            }
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```
    </TabItem>

    
    </Tabs>

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the source to Airbyte. To see your new source, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Sources**. Or, use the [List sources](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listsources) API endpoint.

## Step 3: Create a destination

Add a destination to which you want to send data. In this example, you add BigQuery as a destination. If you want to use a different destination, you can find the code sample for the corresponding resource in the [Terraform provider reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

1. Add your destination to `main.tf`.

    :::tip
    For BigQuery, you must use a [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview) with credentials provided as a JSON string. This creates a unique situation that isn't true for all destinations.

    - If you're using the JSON configuration, use a heredoc and write the JSON string yourself to avoid encoding issues. Escape all slashes and newlines as illustrated in the code sample below.
    
    - If you're using the strongly typed configuration, it's helpful to wrap your credentials JSON in [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode). This way, you don't have to manually escape slashes and newlines in your credentials and your Terraform code looks more human-readable.    
    :::

    <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="JSON" label="JSON">

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_destination_custom" "my_destination_bigquery_custom" {
            configuration = <<-EOF
                {
                    "destination_type": "BigQuery",
                    "credentials_json": "{ \"type\": \"service_account\", \"project_id\": \"YOUR_PROJECT_ID\", \"private_key_id\": \"YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_ID\", \"private_key\": \"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\\n...YOUR_KEY...\\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\\n\", \"client_email\": \"you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com\", \"client_id\": \"YOUR_CLIENT_ID\", \"auth_uri\": \"https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth\", \"token_uri\": \"https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token\", \"auth_provider_x509_cert_url\": \"https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs\", \"client_x509_cert_url\": \"https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com\", \"universe_domain\": \"googleapis.com\" }",
                    "loading_method": {
                        "method": "Standard",
                        "batched_standard_inserts": {}
                    },
                    "dataset_id": "YOUR_DATASET_ID",
                    "dataset_location": "us-central1",
                    "project_id": "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
                    "transformation_priority": "batch"
                }
            EOF
            name          = "BigQuery"
            workspace_id  = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="Strongly typed" label="Strongly typed">

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_destination_bigquery" "my_destination_bigquery" {
            configuration = {
                destination_type       = "BigQuery"
                credentials_json       = jsonencode({
                    "type"                        = "service_account",
                    "project_id"                  = "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
                    "private_key_id"              = "YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_ID",
                    "private_key"                 = "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
                    "client_email"                = "you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
                    "client_id"                   = "YOUR_CLIENT_ID",
                    "auth_uri"                    = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
                    "token_uri"                   = "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
                    "auth_provider_x509_cert_url" = "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
                    "client_x509_cert_url"        = "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
                })
                dataset_id              = "YOUR_DATASET_ID"
                dataset_location        = "us-central1"
                loading_method          = {
                    batched_standard_inserts = {}
                }
                project_id              = "YOUR_PROJECT_ID"
                transformation_priority = "batch"
            }
            name         = "BigQuery"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

    :::note
    Most destinations have a large number of optional attributes. For simplicity, this tutorial uses defaults. See the [reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/destination_bigquery) for additional attributes.
    :::

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the destination to Airbyte. To see your new destination, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Destinations**. Or, use the [List destinations](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listdestinations) API endpoint.

## Step 4: Create a connection

Create a connection from your source to your destination.

1. Add your connection to `main.tf` using the [Airbyte connection](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/connection) resource.

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    resource "airbyte_connection" "stripe_to_bigquery" {
        name           = "Stripe to BigQuery"
        source_id      = airbyte_source_stripe.my_source_stripe.source_id
        destination_id = airbyte_destination_bigquery.my_destination_bigquery.destination_id
    }
    ```

    This example connection will not sync automatically. The [reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/connection) describe a number of attributes you can use to schedule how and when your connections sync.

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the connection to Airbyte. To see your new connection, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Connections**. Or, use the [List connections](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listconnections) API endpoint.

## What's next?

Congratulations! You created your first source, your first destination, and a connection between the two.

- Continue building your sources, destinations, and connections for all your data using Airbyte's [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

- Check out the [Quickstarts repository](https://github.com/airbytehq/quickstarts). It's full of templates and shortcuts to help you build common data stacks using Terraform and Python.

Commit message:

Qualified that this JSON object is optimized for the API, not Terraform.

docs/terraform-documentation.md, after:

---
products: all
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Terraform provider

Follow this tutorial to learn how to use Airbyte's Terraform Provider. 

[Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/), developed by HashiCorp, is an Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool that empowers you to define and provision infrastructure using a declarative configuration language. If you use Terraform to manage your infrastructure, you can use Airbyte's Terraform provider to automate and version control your Airbyte configuration as code. Airbyte's Terraform provider is built off [Airbyte's API](https://reference.airbyte.com).

If you don't need a tutorial, go straight to the [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

## Limitations and considerations

The Airbyte Terraform provider supports connectors that are available in **both** Self-Managed Community and Cloud. It doesn't support connectors that are only available in Self-Managed Community.

## Requirements before you begin

Before starting this tutorial, make sure you have the following:

- Basic familiarity with Terraform is helpful, but not required.

- Install a code editor, like Visual Studio Code, optionally with a Terraform extension.

- Ensure [Terraform is installed](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/install) on your machine.

- Obtain your Airbyte credentials:

    - [An API application](using-airbyte/configuring-api-access.md) in Airbyte, your client ID, and your client secret.

    - The URL of your Airbyte server (e.g. `http://localhost:8000/api/public/v1/`).

    - Your workspace ID. To get your workspace ID, open your workspace in Airbyte, then copy the ID from the URL. It looks like this: `039da657-f061-493e-a836-9bce86bc5e35`.

- Source and destination credentials. This tutorial uses [Stripe](integrations/sources/stripe) and [BigQuery](integrations/destinations/bigquery), but you can substitute any other connector. Consult the documentation for those connectors to ensure you have what you need to connect.

## Strongly typed versus weakly typed {#typing}

The Airbyte provider offers two types of resources, and there are benefits and drawbacks to both. Review this information before creating your sources and destinations.

### Strongly typed configurations

Resources with strongly typed configurations have strict rules about how you write configuration attributes. If they're written incorrectly, these resources prevent `terraform apply` from running.

These resources depend on the underlying Airbyte connectors. Connectors are continually updated as third-party APIs change. This creates two primary points of failure for Terraform.

- You upgrade the Terraform provider version, and fetch a new version of the `config` block. However, you don't upgrade your version of the connector in your Airbyte instance. The setup now crashes because there is a mismatch between the Terraform provider and the connector itself.

- Airbyte builds the Terraform SDK at a given time. Then, the connector has a breaking change, like a third-party deprecating an API endpoint. You upgrade your connector, but Airbyte hasn't upgraded the Terraform provider yet and it doesn't work as expected.

Essentially, using this option creates an ongoing risk that upgrading the Terraform provider or a connector causes a breaking change.

### Weakly typed (JSON) configurations

Instead of using a connector-specific resource, you can use [`airbyte_source_custom`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/source_custom) and [`airbyte_destination_custom`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/destination_custom). These are normally Airbyte's resources for custom connectors, but you can use them with any existing Airbyte or Marketplace connector and write your configurations as JSON objects. These configurations are more robust when connectors change. Mismatches between a Terraform provider and a connector do not prevent `terraform apply` from running. The absence of a newly added configuration option might have no impact at all on your data and your use of that connector.

The main issue with this method is that JSON can technically contain anything, and you could make a mistake that Terraform doesn't warn you about. 

The best way to get a JSON object is to set up a new connector in Airbyte's UI, fill out all the fields, then click **Copy JSON**. You don't actually need to create the connector in the UI since you want to do this with Terraform, but you do need to get the JSON. Currently, Airbyte optimizes this JSON object for the API, and you need to make some adjustments to use it in Terraform. The examples later in this article demonstrate the expected format.

### How to choose

This tutorial demonstrates how to use both options.

- For Airbyte and Marketplace connectors, you can choose which type of resource you prefer. Airbyte generally recommends using a JSON configuration. Based on the feedback we receive, JSON causes less Terraform drift and makes upgrades less problematic in the long run.

- For custom connectors, only weakly typed JSON configurations are possible.

## Step 1: Set up the Terraform provider

Download the Terraform provider and configure it to run with your Airbyte instance.

1. Create a directory to house your Terraform project, navigate to it, and create a file named `main.tf`.

2. Go to https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest.

3. Click **Use Provider**, copy the code, and paste it into `main.tf`. It should look something like this:

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    terraform {
        required_providers {
            airbyte = {
            source = "airbytehq/airbyte"
            version = "0.6.5"
            }
        }
    }

    provider "airbyte" {
        # Configuration options
    }
    ```

4. Configure the Airbyte provider to use your credentials, but don't put your sensitive data into `main.tf`. Instead, insert variables you'll populate later.

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    terraform {
        required_providers {
            airbyte = {
            source = "airbytehq/airbyte"
            version = "0.6.5"
            }
        }
    }

    provider "airbyte" {
        // highlight-start
        client_id = var.client_id
        client_secret = var.client_secret

        # Include server_url if running locally
        server_url = "http://localhost:8000/api/public/v1/"
        // highlight-end
    }
    ```

5. In your terminal, create a file named `variables.tf`. This file stores sensitive variables you don't want to appear in `main.tf`, plus other values you'll reuse often.

6. Populate `variables.tf`. Define `client_id`, `client_secret`, and `workspace_id`.

    ```hcl title="variables.tf"
    variable "client_id" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_CLIENT_ID"
    }

    variable "client_secret" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET"
    }

    variable "workspace_id" {
        type = string
        default = "YOUR_AIRBYTE_WORKSPACE_ID"
    }
    ```

7. Run `terraform init`. Terraform tells you it initialized successfully. If it didn't, check your code against the code samples above.

8. Run `terraform plan`. Terraform tells you there are no changes.

9. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you there are no changes.

## Step 2: Create a source

Add a source from which you want to get data. In this example, you add Stripe as a source. If you want to use a different source, you can find the code sample for the corresponding resource in the [Terraform provider reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

1. Add your source to `main.tf`.

    <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="JSON" label="JSON">
        
        For this and any other Airbyte or Marketplace connector, you can define the source type in the JSON object.
        
        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_custom" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = jsonencode({
                "source_type" : "stripe",
                "account_id" : "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID",
                "client_secret" : "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET",
                "start_date" : "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lookback_window_days" : 0,
                "slice_range" : 365
                })
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

        If this is your own custom connector, use `definition_id` to define the source type. To get this value, open your custom connector in Airbyte and copy the definition ID from the URL of that connector.

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_custom" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = jsonencode({
                "account_id" : "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID",
                "client_secret" : "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET",
                "start_date" : "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lookback_window_days" : 0,
                "slice_range" : 365
                })
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
            // highlight-next-line
            definition_id = "e094cb9a-26de-4645-8761-65c0c425d1de"
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="Strongly typed" label="Strongly typed">
        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_source_stripe" "my_source_stripe" {
            configuration = {
                source_type = "stripe"
                account_id = "YOUR_STRIPE_ACCOUNT_ID"
                client_secret = "YOUR_STRIPE_CLIENT_SECRET"
                start_date = "2023-07-01T00:00:00Z"
                lookback_window_days = 0
                slice_range = 365
            }
            name = "Stripe"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```
    </TabItem>

    
    </Tabs>

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the source to Airbyte. To see your new source, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Sources**. Or, use the [List sources](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listsources) API endpoint.

## Step 3: Create a destination

Add a destination to which you want to send data. In this example, you add BigQuery as a destination. If you want to use a different destination, you can find the code sample for the corresponding resource in the [Terraform provider reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

1. Add your destination to `main.tf`.

    :::tip
    For BigQuery, you must use a [service account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview) with credentials provided as a JSON string. This creates a unique situation that isn't true for all destinations.

    - If you're using the JSON configuration, use a heredoc and write the JSON string yourself to avoid encoding issues. Escape all slashes and newlines as illustrated in the code sample below.
    
    - If you're using the strongly typed configuration, it's helpful to wrap your credentials JSON in [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode). This way, you don't have to manually escape slashes and newlines in your credentials and your Terraform code looks more human-readable.    
    :::

    <Tabs>
    <TabItem value="JSON" label="JSON">

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_destination_custom" "my_destination_bigquery_custom" {
            configuration = <<-EOF
                {
                    "destination_type": "BigQuery",
                    "credentials_json": "{ \"type\": \"service_account\", \"project_id\": \"YOUR_PROJECT_ID\", \"private_key_id\": \"YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_ID\", \"private_key\": \"-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\\n...YOUR_KEY...\\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\\n\", \"client_email\": \"you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com\", \"client_id\": \"YOUR_CLIENT_ID\", \"auth_uri\": \"https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth\", \"token_uri\": \"https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token\", \"auth_provider_x509_cert_url\": \"https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs\", \"client_x509_cert_url\": \"https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com\", \"universe_domain\": \"googleapis.com\" }",
                    "loading_method": {
                        "method": "Standard",
                        "batched_standard_inserts": {}
                    },
                    "dataset_id": "YOUR_DATASET_ID",
                    "dataset_location": "us-central1",
                    "project_id": "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
                    "transformation_priority": "batch"
                }
            EOF
            name          = "BigQuery"
            workspace_id  = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem value="Strongly typed" label="Strongly typed">

        ```hcl title="main.tf"
        resource "airbyte_destination_bigquery" "my_destination_bigquery" {
            configuration = {
                destination_type       = "BigQuery"
                credentials_json       = jsonencode({
                    "type"                        = "service_account",
                    "project_id"                  = "YOUR_PROJECT_ID",
                    "private_key_id"              = "YOUR_PRIVATE_KEY_ID",
                    "private_key"                 = "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\n...\n-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n",
                    "client_email"                = "you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
                    "client_id"                   = "YOUR_CLIENT_ID",
                    "auth_uri"                    = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
                    "token_uri"                   = "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token",
                    "auth_provider_x509_cert_url" = "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v1/certs",
                    "client_x509_cert_url"        = "https://www.googleapis.com/robot/v1/metadata/x509/you@example.iam.gserviceaccount.com"
                })
                dataset_id              = "YOUR_DATASET_ID"
                dataset_location        = "us-central1"
                loading_method          = {
                    batched_standard_inserts = {}
                }
                project_id              = "YOUR_PROJECT_ID"
                transformation_priority = "batch"
            }
            name         = "BigQuery"
            workspace_id = var.workspace_id
        }
        ```

    </TabItem>
    </Tabs>

    :::note
    Most destinations have a large number of optional attributes. For simplicity, this tutorial uses defaults. See the [reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/destination_bigquery) for additional attributes.
    :::

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the destination to Airbyte. To see your new destination, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Destinations**. Or, use the [List destinations](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listdestinations) API endpoint.

## Step 4: Create a connection

Create a connection from your source to your destination.

1. Add your connection to `main.tf` using the [Airbyte connection](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/connection) resource.

    ```hcl title="main.tf"
    resource "airbyte_connection" "stripe_to_bigquery" {
        name           = "Stripe to BigQuery"
        source_id      = airbyte_source_stripe.my_source_stripe.source_id
        destination_id = airbyte_destination_bigquery.my_destination_bigquery.destination_id
    }
    ```

    This example connection will not sync automatically. The [reference docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs/resources/connection) describe a number of attributes you can use to schedule how and when your connections sync.

2. Run `terraform apply`. Terraform tells you it will add 1 resource. Type `yes` and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

Terraform adds the connection to Airbyte. To see your new connection, open your Airbyte workspace and click **Connections**. Or, use the [List connections](https://reference.airbyte.com/reference/listconnections) API endpoint.

## What's next?

Congratulations! You created your first source, your first destination, and a connection between the two.

- Continue building your sources, destinations, and connections for all your data using Airbyte's [Terraform docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/airbytehq/airbyte/latest/docs).

- Check out the [Quickstarts repository](https://github.com/airbytehq/quickstarts). It's full of templates and shortcuts to help you build common data stacks using Terraform and Python.
