docs/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/qa-checks.md, before:

# Airbyte connectors QA checks

This document is listing all the static-analysis checks that are performed on the Airbyte connectors.
These checks are running in our CI/CD pipeline and are used to ensure a connector is following the best practices and is respecting the Airbyte standards.
Meeting these standards means that the connector will be able to be safely integrated into the Airbyte platform and released to registries (DockerHub, Pypi etc.).
You can consider these checks as a set of guidelines to follow when developing a connector.
They are by no mean replacing the need for a manual review of the connector codebase and the implementation of good test suites.

## 📄 Documentation

### Breaking changes must be accompanied by a migration guide

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

When a breaking change is introduced, we check that a migration guide is available. It should be stored under `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>-migrations.md`.
This document should contain a section for each breaking change, in order of the version descending. It must explain users which action to take to migrate to the new version.

### Connectors must have user facing documentation

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should be stored under `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>.md`.

### Links used in connector documentation are valid

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should update invalid links in connector documentation.

### Connectors documentation headers structure, naming and order follow our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

This check expects the following order of headers in the documentation:

````


  # <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>

  ## Prerequisites

  ## Setup guide

  ## Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>

  ### For Airbyte Cloud:

  ### For Airbyte Open Source:

  ### { Connector-specific features }

  ## Set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector in Airbyte

  ### For Airbyte Cloud:

  ### For Airbyte Open Source:

  ## { Connector-specific features }

  ## Supported sync modes

  ## Supported Streams

  ## { Connector-specific features }

  ### Performance considerations

  ## Data type map

  ## Limitations & Troubleshooting

  ### { Connector-specific features }

  ### Tutorials

  ## Changelog


````


List of not required headers, which can be not exist in the documentation and their strict check will be skipped:

  - Set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector in Airbyte

  - For Airbyte Cloud: *(as subtitle of Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA)>

  - For Airbyte Open Source: *(as subtitle of Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA)>

  - { Connector-specific features } (but this headers should be on a right place according to expected order)

  - Performance considerations

  - Data type map

  - Limitations & Troubleshooting

  - Tutorials


### Prerequisites section of the documentation describes all required fields from specification.

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should update `Prerequisites` section with description for all required fields from source specification. Having described all required fields in a one place helps Airbyte users easily set up the source connector. 
If spec has required credentials/access_token/refresh_token etc, check searches for one of ["account", "auth", "credentials", "access", "client"] words. No need to add credentials/access_token/refresh_token etc to the section

### Main Source Section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> header section content follows standard template:

````

<HideInUI>

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the [<CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>]({docs_link}) source connector.

</HideInUI>


````

### 'For Airbyte Cloud:' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that For Airbyte Cloud: header section content follows standard template:

````

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. Click Sources and then click + New source.
3. On the Set up the source page, select <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> from the Source type dropdown.
4. Enter a name for the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector.

````

### 'For Airbyte Open Source:' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that For Airbyte Open Source: header section content follows standard template:

````

1. Navigate to the Airbyte Open Source dashboard.

````

### 'Supported sync modes' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Supported sync modes header section content follows standard template:

````

The <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts/#connection-sync-modes):


````

### 'Tutorials' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Tutorials header section content follows standard template:

````

Now that you have set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> source connector, check out the following <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> tutorials:


````

### 'Changelog' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Changelog header section content follows standard template:

````
<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>
</details>
````

### Connectors must have a changelog entry for each version

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Each new version of a connector must have a changelog entry defined in the user facing documentation in `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>.md`.

## 📝 Metadata

### Connectors must have valid metadata.yaml file

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must have a `metadata.yaml` file at the root of their directory. This file is used to build our connector registry. Its structure must follow our metadata schema. Field values are also validated. This is to ensure that all connectors have the required metadata fields and that the metadata is valid. More details in this [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/connector-development/connector-metadata-file).

### Connector must have a language tag in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must have a language tag in their metadata. It must be set in the `tags` field in metadata.yaml. The values can be `language:python` or `language:java`. This checks infers the correct language tag based on the presence of certain files in the connector directory.

### Python connectors must have a CDK tag in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Python connectors must have a CDK tag in their metadata. It must be set in the `tags` field in metadata.yaml. The values can be `cdk:low-code`, `cdk:python`, or `cdk:file`.

### Breaking change deadline should be a week in the future

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

If the connector version has a breaking change, the deadline field must be set to at least a week in the future.

### Certified source connector must have a value filled out for maxSecondsBetweenMessages in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with certified support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Certified source connectors must have a value filled out for `maxSecondsBetweenMessages` in metadata. This value represents the maximum number of seconds we could expect between messages for API connectors. And it's used by platform to tune connectors heartbeat timeout. The value must be set in the 'data' field in connector's `metadata.yaml` file.

## 📦 Packaging

### Connectors must use Poetry for dependency management

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management. This is to ensure that all connectors use a dependency management tool which locks dependencies and ensures reproducible installs.

### Connectors must be licensed under MIT or Elv2

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must be licensed under the MIT or Elv2 license. This is to ensure that all connectors are licensed under a permissive license. More details in our [License FAQ](https://docs.airbyte.com/developer-guides/licenses/license-faq).

### Connector license in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors license in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match. This is to ensure that all connectors are consistently licensed.

### Connector version must follow Semantic Versioning

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connector version must follow the Semantic Versioning scheme. This is to ensure that all connectors follow a consistent versioning scheme. Refer to our [Semantic Versioning for Connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/#semantic-versioning-for-connectors) for more details.

### Connector version in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connector version in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match. This is to ensure that connector release is consistent.

### Python connectors must have PyPi publishing enabled

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Python connectors must have [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) publishing enabled in their `metadata.yaml` file. This is declared by setting `remoteRegistries.pypi.enabled` to `true` in metadata.yaml. This is to ensure that all connectors can be published to PyPi and can be used in `PyAirbyte`.

### Manifest-only connectors must use `source-declarative-manifest` as their base image

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Manifest-only connectors must use `airbyte/source-declarative-manifest` as their base image.

## 💼 Assets

### Connectors must have an icon

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Each connector must have an icon available in at the root of the connector code directory. It must be an SVG file named `icon.svg` and must be a square.

## 🔒 Security

### Connectors must use HTTPS only

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use HTTPS only when making requests to external services.

### Python connectors must not use a Dockerfile and must declare their base image in metadata.yaml file

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use our Python connector base image (`docker.io/airbyte/python-connector-base`), declared through the `connectorBuildOptions.baseImage` in their `metadata.yaml`.
This is to ensure that all connectors use a base image which is maintained and has security updates.

## 🧪 Testing

### Medium to High Use Connectors must enable acceptance tests

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with medium, high Airbyte usage level_

Medium to High Use Connectors must enable acceptance tests via the `connectorTestSuitesOptions.suite:acceptanceTests` in their respective metadata.yaml file to ensure that the connector is working as expected.

Commit message:

updated CheckDocumentationLinks to skip example urls and 406 status code

docs/contributing-to-airbyte/resources/qa-checks.md, after:

# Airbyte connectors QA checks

This document is listing all the static-analysis checks that are performed on the Airbyte connectors.
These checks are running in our CI/CD pipeline and are used to ensure a connector is following the best practices and is respecting the Airbyte standards.
Meeting these standards means that the connector will be able to be safely integrated into the Airbyte platform and released to registries (DockerHub, Pypi etc.).
You can consider these checks as a set of guidelines to follow when developing a connector.
They are by no mean replacing the need for a manual review of the connector codebase and the implementation of good test suites.

## 📄 Documentation

### Breaking changes must be accompanied by a migration guide

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

When a breaking change is introduced, we check that a migration guide is available. It should be stored under `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>-migrations.md`.
This document should contain a section for each breaking change, in order of the version descending. It must explain users which action to take to migrate to the new version.

### Connectors must have user facing documentation

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should be stored under `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>.md`.

### Links used in connector documentation are valid

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should update invalid links in connector documentation. For links that are used as example and return 404 status code, use `example: ` before link to skip it.

### Connectors documentation headers structure, naming and order follow our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

This check expects the following order of headers in the documentation:

````


  # <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>

  ## Prerequisites

  ## Setup guide

  ## Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>

  ### For Airbyte Cloud:

  ### For Airbyte Open Source:

  ### { Connector-specific features }

  ## Set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector in Airbyte

  ### For Airbyte Cloud:

  ### For Airbyte Open Source:

  ## { Connector-specific features }

  ## Supported sync modes

  ## Supported Streams

  ## { Connector-specific features }

  ### Performance considerations

  ## Data type map

  ## Limitations & Troubleshooting

  ### { Connector-specific features }

  ### Tutorials

  ## Changelog


````


List of not required headers, which can be not exist in the documentation and their strict check will be skipped:

  - Set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector in Airbyte

  - For Airbyte Cloud: *(as subtitle of Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA)>

  - For Airbyte Open Source: *(as subtitle of Set up <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA)>

  - { Connector-specific features } (but this headers should be on a right place according to expected order)

  - Performance considerations

  - Data type map

  - Limitations & Troubleshooting

  - Tutorials


### Prerequisites section of the documentation describes all required fields from specification.

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should update `Prerequisites` section with description for all required fields from source specification. Having described all required fields in a one place helps Airbyte users easily set up the source connector. 
If spec has required credentials/access_token/refresh_token etc, check searches for one of ["account", "auth", "credentials", "access", "client"] words. No need to add credentials/access_token/refresh_token etc to the section

### Main Source Section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> header section content follows standard template:

````

<HideInUI>

This page contains the setup guide and reference information for the [<CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA>]({docs_link}) source connector.

</HideInUI>


````

### 'For Airbyte Cloud:' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that For Airbyte Cloud: header section content follows standard template:

````

1. [Log into your Airbyte Cloud](https://cloud.airbyte.com/workspaces) account.
2. Click Sources and then click + New source.
3. On the Set up the source page, select <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> from the Source type dropdown.
4. Enter a name for the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> connector.

````

### 'For Airbyte Open Source:' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that For Airbyte Open Source: header section content follows standard template:

````

1. Navigate to the Airbyte Open Source dashboard.

````

### 'Supported sync modes' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Supported sync modes header section content follows standard template:

````

The <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> source connector supports the following [sync modes](https://docs.airbyte.com/cloud/core-concepts/#connection-sync-modes):


````

### 'Tutorials' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Tutorials header section content follows standard template:

````

Now that you have set up the <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> source connector, check out the following <CONNECTOR_NAME_FROM_METADATA> tutorials:


````

### 'Changelog' section of the documentation follows our guidelines

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with 300 internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

The user facing connector documentation should follow the guidelines defined in the [standard template](https://hackmd.io/Bz75cgATSbm7DjrAqgl4rw).

Check verifies that Changelog header section content follows standard template:

````
<details>
  <summary>Expand to review</summary>
</details>
````

### Connectors must have a changelog entry for each version

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Each new version of a connector must have a changelog entry defined in the user facing documentation in `./docs/integrations/<connector-type>s/<connector-name>.md`.

## 📝 Metadata

### Connectors must have valid metadata.yaml file

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must have a `metadata.yaml` file at the root of their directory. This file is used to build our connector registry. Its structure must follow our metadata schema. Field values are also validated. This is to ensure that all connectors have the required metadata fields and that the metadata is valid. More details in this [documentation](https://docs.airbyte.com/connector-development/connector-metadata-file).

### Connector must have a language tag in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must have a language tag in their metadata. It must be set in the `tags` field in metadata.yaml. The values can be `language:python` or `language:java`. This checks infers the correct language tag based on the presence of certain files in the connector directory.

### Python connectors must have a CDK tag in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Python connectors must have a CDK tag in their metadata. It must be set in the `tags` field in metadata.yaml. The values can be `cdk:low-code`, `cdk:python`, or `cdk:file`.

### Breaking change deadline should be a week in the future

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

If the connector version has a breaking change, the deadline field must be set to at least a week in the future.

### Certified source connector must have a value filled out for maxSecondsBetweenMessages in metadata

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with certified support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Certified source connectors must have a value filled out for `maxSecondsBetweenMessages` in metadata. This value represents the maximum number of seconds we could expect between messages for API connectors. And it's used by platform to tune connectors heartbeat timeout. The value must be set in the 'data' field in connector's `metadata.yaml` file.

## 📦 Packaging

### Connectors must use Poetry for dependency management

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) for dependency management. This is to ensure that all connectors use a dependency management tool which locks dependencies and ensures reproducible installs.

### Connectors must be licensed under MIT or Elv2

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must be licensed under the MIT or Elv2 license. This is to ensure that all connectors are licensed under a permissive license. More details in our [License FAQ](https://docs.airbyte.com/developer-guides/licenses/license-faq).

### Connector license in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors license in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match. This is to ensure that all connectors are consistently licensed.

### Connector version must follow Semantic Versioning

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connector version must follow the Semantic Versioning scheme. This is to ensure that all connectors follow a consistent versioning scheme. Refer to our [Semantic Versioning for Connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/contributing-to-airbyte/#semantic-versioning-for-connectors) for more details.

### Connector version in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connector version in metadata.yaml and pyproject.toml file must match. This is to ensure that connector release is consistent.

### Python connectors must have PyPi publishing enabled

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Python connectors must have [PyPi](https://pypi.org/) publishing enabled in their `metadata.yaml` file. This is declared by setting `remoteRegistries.pypi.enabled` to `true` in metadata.yaml. This is to ensure that all connectors can be published to PyPi and can be used in `PyAirbyte`.

### Manifest-only connectors must use `source-declarative-manifest` as their base image

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Manifest-only connectors must use `airbyte/source-declarative-manifest` as their base image.

## 💼 Assets

### Connectors must have an icon

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Each connector must have an icon available in at the root of the connector code directory. It must be an SVG file named `icon.svg` and must be a square.

## 🔒 Security

### Connectors must use HTTPS only

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use HTTPS only when making requests to external services.

### Python connectors must not use a Dockerfile and must declare their base image in metadata.yaml file

_Applies to the following connector types: source, destination_
_Applies to the following connector languages: python, low-code, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with any Airbyte usage level_

Connectors must use our Python connector base image (`docker.io/airbyte/python-connector-base`), declared through the `connectorBuildOptions.baseImage` in their `metadata.yaml`.
This is to ensure that all connectors use a base image which is maintained and has security updates.

## 🧪 Testing

### Medium to High Use Connectors must enable acceptance tests

_Applies to the following connector types: source_
_Applies to the following connector languages: java, low-code, python, manifest-only_
_Applies to connector with any support level_
_Applies to connector with any internal support level_
_Applies to connector with medium, high Airbyte usage level_

Medium to High Use Connectors must enable acceptance tests via the `connectorTestSuitesOptions.suite:acceptanceTests` in their respective metadata.yaml file to ensure that the connector is working as expected.
